	The mighty king of all primeval England, Uther Pendragon, lusts after Igrayne, wife of the Duke of Cornwall. Uther invites the duke and his wife to his castle and propositions her. She refuses him, tells her husband, and the duke and Igrayne slip out of Uther's castle by night and flee. On the advice of his knights, the king, sick with lust and rage, marches on the Duke of Cornwall. While the siege is still on, Merlin the magician arranges a pact with King Uther. He will transform Uther into the image of the duke and get him to bed with lgrayne. The condition is that the child who will be conceived on this night shall go to Merlin for rearing as he sees fit.

Carroll Lusts after Blanquo's wife, Igraine. Igraine is attracted to him, but resists. She cares about her family, and about Carroll's relationship with Blanquo.

Carroll lies to Blanquo and sends him to his death. He sleeps with Igraine.

Afterward, the guilt is too much for Carroll to bear. He turns to the druidic chaplain, Merlaine, for absolution. Merlaine has helped Carroll before (early in his carreer, Carroll gets into trouble. he faces serious charges, goes to Father Merlaine for help.) Merlaine warns of a great price, but takes away all memory of the evil Carroll has done in this case.

	The child is conceived hours after the real duke's death, and King Uther later marries the widow. On the same morning, by King Uther's request, two fellow kings — Lot and Nantres — marry two of Uther's daughters, and the third daughter, Morgan le Fay, is put to school in a nunnery and becomes a necromancer; she later marries King Uriens. The child is born and delivered unchristened to Merlin.

This leaves Igraine alone and abandoned. Carroll is now deaf to her, after he made promise after promise to her. She is emotionally battered and fragile. her life falls apart. She sends her 6-year-old daughter, Morgaise, to a nunnery. Igraine gives birth to Carroll's son, Mathuin. She descends into substance abuse and depression, gives Mathuin terrible early years. She eventually commits suicide in front of him when he is four or five or six. He goes into an orphanage and takes the surname common to wards of the state, MacDara (son of the Oak).

	Two years pass. In this time Uther's enemies strike at him repeatedly, killing many of his people. Uther falls sick, and in the hour of his death, Merlin gets him to proclaim his son Arthur the future king of England.

Years pass. Carroll is decorated again and again. But he is haunted by the ghost of Blanquo, who accuses him of things of which he has no recollection.

	After Uther's death, the kingdom is in jeopardy, every baron struggling to seize control. Merlin goes to the Archbishop of Canterbury, tells him a miracle is coming soon and advises him to assemble all the lords of the kingdom at Christmas. They come and find a sword lodged in a stone, and on it the legend: Whoso pulleth out this sword from this stone and anvil is duly born King of all England. No man can budge it, and to keep them in hand, the archbishop arranges a New Year's Day tournament. To this tournament a knight of low station, Sir Ector, comes with his son Kay and the child Merlin placed in his care, Arthur.

A Leviathan falls from space and several countries join together in alliance to study the thing. To try and figure it out. There is a great, living tree-like structure that runs through the heart of the thing, with something that looks like the handle of a great sword sticking out. None can budge or activate this thing. 

The scientists realize that the thing may be dying on earth ... like a beached whale. If they are to uncover its secrets, they need to take it out of the atmosphere and up into the heavens. They schedule a launch day - a festival with much pomp and circumstance. A great ship to rival (and perhaps to protect earth from the influence of) the terrible Leviathans that cross the heavens (and - sometimes - dip into the upper atmosphere) every 75 or 100 years, bringing strife and terror and nightmares and unrest and upheaval to all the peoples of the earth when they come.

	On the way, Kay loses his sword and sends Arthur back. Arthur brings the sword from the stone. When they hear of this, the barons are outraged at the thought of being ruled by a boy. They postpone their decision on Arthur's kingship again and again, but at last accept it, at the urging of the commons, and Arthur is crowned. He redistributes the land, redresses old wrongs, and extends his realm, in a few years bringing all the North, Scotland, and Wales to submission.

Aemond Carroll is appointed as Captain of the Leviathan - it has now been styled after a battlecruiser (but much much larger and still barely understood). 

Carroll is taken on a tour of the ship when he is appointed. He is taken to visit the Wyrds - the three-voiced oracle still living in one of the chambers of the Camelot. Three strange and twisted sisters that fortell the future - Carroll has often dreamed of these frightening women. They dispell the cloud that Merlain had cast over him, and the memory of his sins comes flooding back to him - as well as the knowledge of his son, Mathuin. Carroll demands to see Merlain and insists that his son be brought before him. Mathuin is brought aboard. Mathuin pulls the great sword from the trunk of the tree, kills Carroll and transports the ship - by folding space - into the outer reaches of the solar system, just as an invading force of Old Ones (the Leviathan Masters) descends with violent chaos onto earth.

	Arthur has himself crowned in Wales and the mightiest kings of his time come to the coronation, among them King Lot, King Nantres, and King Uriens, the husbands of Uther's three daughters. Arthur is pleased, thinking they come from love and respect; but the gifts he sends them are scornfully refused: they have come to fight him. With 500 men, Arthur withdraws to a tower, and Merlin goes to talk with the hostile kings. He tells them of Arthur's lineage and arranges a parley, then vanishes from their midst and returns to Arthur. He tells Arthur to answer his enemies boldly, for destiny is on his side.

	The parley fails, war begins, and with the help of his magical sword Excalibur, gleaming in his enemies' eyes like twenty torches, Arthur routs his enemies. He returns to London, and there Merlin gives him a three-part plan of war. First he advises that Arthur get help from two kings over the sea, Ban and Bors, and that Arthur promise in return to help with their wars. Second, he advises a midnight attack on the greatest and bravest of Arthur's enemies, King Lot. Third, lie advises that the armies of Ban and Bors be moved secretly into the English forest of Bedgraine. This Merlin himself accomplishes. Arthur and his army fight the hostile kings-grown to a league of eleven — and bring the battle to a draw. When the enemy is weakened and weary, the fresh armies of Ban and Bors descend.

	King Lot and his allies are badly beaten and might be destroyed, but Merlin tells Arthur to quit or Fortune will turn on him. The hostile armies will not trouble him now for three years. Arthur and his allies stop, joyful over their success, and Merlin sees that all that happened in the battle is written down. An interlude of peace follows; a seemingly irrational joke by Merlin, then the appearance of an earl's daughter on whom Arthur gets a child who will become, later, a Round Table knight.

	Now Arthur, Ban, and Bors go to help King Lodegreaunce with his war and win it for him. There Arthur first sees Guinevere and immediately loves her. Ban and Bors return home, and so do the eleven hostile kings, who find their lands overrun with Saracens and other bandits — lands Arthur would have protected for them, they realize, if they had not struggled against him. They drive out the Saracens and begin to plot vengeance for the battle of Bedgraine.

	Arthur goes to Carlyon, where the wife of King Lot and his four sons — Gawain, Gaheris, Aggravain, and Gareth — come to visit, actually to spy. Unaware that Lot's wife is his own sister, Arthur gets a child on her — Mordred. That night Arthur dreams that his land is overrun by gryphons and serpents which burn the land and slay the people; he fights them in his dream and, with great difficulty, slays them. To drive the nightmare out of his mind, Arthur goes hunting. He chases a hart until his horse falls dead. A yeoman brings another horse, but Arthur sits, lost in thought, near a fountain. A mysterious beast comes, drinks, and moves on; immediately afterward a strange knight comes — Sir Pellanor, hunter of the Questing Beast. Arthur offers to take up the quest, but Sir Pellanor says that destiny will allow none but him or his next of kin to kill the beast; then he takes Arthur's horse by force.

	Then Merlin comes, disguised as a child of fourteen. Merlin tells Arthur that he is Uther's son by Igrayne. Arthur refuses to believe the boy because of his youth, and Merlin leaves, then returns as an old man. He now tells Arthur that if he would only have listened to him, the boy might have told him many things. Merlin-as-old-man tells him only that he has lain by his sister and has gotten on her the child who will destroy him. Then, revealing himself, Merlin prophesies that whereas Arthur will die a worshipful death, Merlin's death will be shameful — he will be sealed in the earth alive.

	A few days later a squire comes to the court with his dying master, wounded by Sir Pellanor. A young squire of Arthur's court, Gryfflet, asks to be made knight and avenge the wrong; and against Merlin's advice, Arthur grants the boy's request. Gryfflet fights Pellanor and returns again to the court nearly dead. With his mind on Gryfflet, Arthur hastily and angrily dismisses envoys from King Lucius of Rome and rides out himself again against Merlin's advice — fights Pellanor, and is beaten. He is about to be beheaded when Merlin saves him by means of a spell. Merlin tells him that Pellanor will do him great service later, and that his two sons, Percival and Lamerok of Wales, will be two of the most valiant knights of the Round Table.

	Having lost his sword in the fight with Pellanor, Arthur asks Merlin what he should do. Merlin guides him to a magical lake where an arm reaches out of the water holding a sword. Merlin takes him now to the Lady of the Lake, who gives him the sword, demanding that he give some return gift later, when she asks for it. Arthur agrees. The sword is the finest in the world, the scabbard better yet: as long as he wears the scabbard, nothing can harm him.

	They return to court, where new troubles are waiting. Messengers from King Royns of North Wales say that Royns has overcome the eleven kings, has taken their beards, and now demands Arthur's. Arthur refuses them as angrily as lie earlier refused the Roman king's demand for tribute. Then, advised by Merlin that he should destroy all highborn children delivered on May Day, because Mordred is one of them, Arthur orders these children brought to his court. They are put on a ship, which drives onto rocks killing all but one — Mordred. Many of Arthur's lords and barons are furious, hearing of the death of their sons. Some blame Arthur, some Merlin. But for the time, they hold their peace.