# Timeline

The Wyrd sisters plan to meet Carrol  - fair is foul and foul is fair

Carroll commits an act of betrayal that causes the commander of the CAWDOR to be marked as a traitor. Before the trial, Carroll turns to the chaplain Merlaine for help. Merlaine takes away Carrolls memory - the knowledge of his guilt. but there is a great price to pay - Carroll loses some of his ability for introspection, some of his moral fiber. he becomes less able to discern between right and wrong, becomes separated from the consequences of his own actions. But the trail is decided in Carroll's favor. the commander of the CAWDOR is executed.
	
	Carroll is indignant. Offendable. Stands by his morals, without knowing how they behave under pressure. He ran into trouble early on, was due to face a commission. He came to Merlaine for salvation. For forgiveness. To be absolved of his sins. Merlaine took away his memories, so that when Carroll stood in front of the tribunal and heard the accusations they laid upon him, he was affronted and indignant and had no recollection whatsoever of such an event, nor could he imagine himself capable of such indiscretion. The tribunal dropped the charges and dismissed the case.

Carroll Lusts after his friend Blanquo's wife, Igraine. Igraine is attracted to him, but resists. She cares about her family, and about Carroll's relationship with Blanquo.

King Aeuralius Ambrosius announces Carroll's promotion to command of the battlecruiser CAWDOR

Carroll dreams of the Wyrds - they greet him as 'lord of the GLAMIS' (which he is), 'commader of the CAWDOR,' and 'King to be'(blood of kings?). Carroll stands with Blanquo and the wyrds tell Blanquo that his wife will father kings. Carroll wakes to the call - he has been given command of the CAWDOR

Aeuralius demands and receives assurances that the former captain of the CAWDOR has been executed. He has Carroll and Blanquo and their families as guests. 

Carroll promises Igraine riches for herself and power for her husband. He urges her to be cold, to be hard, and to take him to her bed. she must do the hard thing sometimes, if she wants to see a future. Igraine agrees.

Carroll experiences a moment of self-doubt. considers backing down from his path of sin, but is unable to stop himself

Carroll and Igraine begin their affair.

	Past midnight, at Blanquo's place, Carroll and Blanquo talk about the future. Carroll sends Blanquo to chase chimeras, and goes to sleep with his wife.

	He tries to justify it as some romantic notion -- you cannot interfere where matters of the heart are concerned ... love knows no boundaries, etc. But he tells blanquo something to get rid of him, without thinking the consequenses through. He *knew* ahead of time that there was great danger in something, whatever that something was ... but he either forgot about it or ignored it because sending Blanquo into the trouble was the surest way to get into his wife's panties.

	Blanquo is hoodwinked. asked to turn a blind eye ... his trust is abused by Carroll. Carroll points at conspiracy elsewhere, something to distract and occupy Blanquo. He lies to him in order to take his wife

Blanquo begins to suspect that something is going on between Igraine and Carroll.

Igraine and Carroll conspire to kill her husband so they might be together. They kill him, and frame his bodyguards, making it look like they were part of an assasination plot of some kind.

	Igraine waits for Aemond Carroll to come with the news that he has killed Blanquo ... Carroll is so shaken by the murder that he brings the bloody daggers with him, and Igraine takes them from him, to place them with the bodyguards they are framing. It is very early in the morning. A knocking at the door frightens Carrol and his wife comes to lead him away, so that they can wash the blood from their hands.

	The caller is admitted into the house and discovers Blanquo's body. Carroll feigns rage and horror, and kills the bodyguards 

	They get away with the crime, but guilt is eating aemond alive. 

		Igraine and Carroll both envy the peaceful dead, who sleep in peace, while they, who have everything, live in constant fear of losing everything. . . . Carroll reassures Lady Carroll that their problems will be solved by a terrible deed to be done in the night.

In recurring dreams, Carroll is told prophesy by the Wyrds: he will be killed by his own son, far away from the soil of earth.

	"Double, double, toil and trouble," the three Witches stir the cauldron. . . . The witches call up apparitions which give Carroll warnings, promises, and prophecies: beware Merlaine, he will not die, unless it is by the hand of his own son, far from the soil of earth, fear nothing until Birnam wood come to Avalon , Blanquo's issue shall be kings

	<!-- NOTE: Birnam Wood - the grove of sacred trees that Merlain has transported to Avalon / Odessa as tribute at the dedication ceremony -->

the guilt is too much for Carroll to bear. He turns to the druidic chaplain, Merlaine, for absolution. Merlaine has helped Carroll before (early in his carreer, Carroll gets into trouble. he faces serious charges, goes to Father Merlaine for help.) Merlaine warns of a great price, but takes away all memory of the evil Carroll has done in this case.

	Merlaine is hesitant, but he does a ritual.	"For true absolution, you must take your life into your own hands and *sin no more* my son."

		Carroll has done something. He's committed a terrible sin. He is full of shame and is desperate to be cleansed. To have the sins washed away. He goes to Merlaine for help, for Merlaine has helped him in the past.

		"I've dreamt of them again," he says.

		"The witches?" Merlaine asks, for confirmation. No answer is necessary. "What do they say now?"

		"They promise great things. They promise power. Salvation for all men. They promise hope."

		A leviathan is near. Everyone dreams the same. They have all been dreaming of the sisters too. But they do not promise hope or salvation to anyone else. They promise ruin.

		"In the dream, they promise victory. Help me, Merlaine."

		Merlaine doesn't answer. 

		"Help me."

		*"You don't know what you are asking me."*

		"I am asking you to help me."

		"There will be great consequences."

		"As a friend."

		"To do what you ask ... there will ba a great price."

		"Anything," says Carroll.

This leaves Igraine alone and abandoned. Carroll is now deaf to her, after he made promise after promise to her. She is emotionally battered and fragile. her life falls apart. She sends her 6-year-old daughter, Morgaise, to a nunnery. Igraine gives birth to Carroll's son, Mathuin. She descends into substance abuse and depression, gives Mathuin terrible early years. She eventually commits suicide in front of him when he is four or five or six. He goes into an orphanage and takes the surname common to wards of the state, MacDara (son of the Oak).

Carroll is decorated again and again. But he is haunted by the ghost of Blanquo, who accuses him of things of which he has no recollection.

	Merlaine washes away the memories, but Carroll knows he has done wrong. The accumulation of his sins is not easily overpowered, and his sins haunt him. His old friend, *Blanquo Tintagel* haunts him. His ghost comes and visits when he is tired and vulnerable. He visits and he asks Carroll "Why? Why did you abandon her? If you loved her enough to kill me, you should have loved her. You should have looked after her. You should have taken care of her. Why did you abandon her? Why did you leave her all alone, after you had taken everything from her?"

	"I don't know what you are talking about," says Carrol. "I loved you like a brother. I tried to warn you. I exacted vengance. I killed those traitorous wretches for what they did to you ..."

	"Really?" asks the ghost of Blanquo. "Are you sure about that?"

A Leviathan falls from space and several countries join together in alliance to study the thing. To try and figure it out. There is a great, living tree-like structure that runs through the heart of the thing, with something that looks like the handle of a great sword sticking out. None can budge or activate this thing. 

The scientists realize that the thing may be dying on earth ... like a beached whale. If they are to uncover its secrets, they need to take it out of the atmosphere and up into the heavens. They schedule a launch day - a festival with much pomp and circumstance. A great ship to rival (and perhaps to protect earth from the influence of) the terrible Leviathans that cross the heavens (and - sometimes - dip into the upper atmosphere) every 75 or 100 years, bringing strife and terror and nightmares and unrest and upheaval to all the peoples of the earth when they come.

Aemond Carroll is appointed as Captain of the Leviathan - it has now been styled after a battlecruiser (but much much larger and still barely understood). 

---

Carroll is visited by the ghost of Blanquo. 

	He tries to chase Blanquo away with a glass of scotch. That doesn't work, so he tries a shot of whiskey instead. Blanquo seems confused and backs off for a while, but then he comes back even bolder, if a little less steady on his feet. Aemond knocks back another shot of whiskey, and Blanquo fades away, but not for long. He comes back, pointing his knobby finger at Aemond. "Why?" he asks. "Why did you do do it?"

	Blanquo always liked tequilla. Aemond steps out to a bar and buys a round of tequilla shots for some young uniformed ladies. 

	Blanquo stays away until Carroll leaves the girls behind.

	"How's that temper, Aemond?" he asks. Got it under control? You always were a mean drunk. Me? forget about me. Who cares about me? No one even misses me. 

---

Carroll is taken on a tour of the ship when he is appointed. He is taken to visit the Wyrds - the three-voiced oracle still living in one of the chambers of the Camelot. Three strange and twisted sisters that fortell the future - Carroll has often dreamed of these frightening women. They dispell the cloud that Merlain had cast over him, and the memory of his sins comes flooding back to him - as well as the knowledge of his son, Mathuin. 

When Carroll meets the Wyrds, he realizes that Igraine had a son before she died ... and *he* is the father. He demands that Merlaine bring him, immediately. Just to talk. Merlaine has already made moves to bring the kid. He knows that something must happen here. Carroll makes a progressively worsening scene. He invites Mathuin to stay with him ... he makes sweet, drunken promises, but Mathuin hears voices all around him. Voices of the trees, the voice of the Camelot Tree - the Branstock - they see through Carroll's lies, and Mathuin calls him on his lies. He sees through his father, he sees the terrible sins he has committed and he provokes him, they escalate toward violence (Carroll knows he cannot die so long as the earth is beneath them) and into violence. And when Mathuin draws the great sword Excalibur (or Gram - or Wrath) the ship comes to life and they Fold space into the outer reaches of the solar system, dragging the majority of the city of Odessa / Avalon with them. Now Carrol begins to panic, for he knows the prophecy is about to be fulfilled.

Carroll demands to see Merlain and insists that his son be brought before him. Mathuin is brought aboard. Mathuin pulls the great sword from the trunk of the tree, kills Carroll and transports the ship - by folding space - into the outer reaches of the solar system, just as an invading force of Old Ones (the Leviathan Masters) descends with violent chaos onto earth.