Igraine and Commander Aemond Carroll get caught having an affair by Blanquo Tintagel (Igraine's husband) - she announces her pregnancy, and expects Blanquo to be thrilled to have a child on the way. But Blanquo is not thrilled. For he knows that he is unable to have a child, so he knows she is cheating. 

Blanquo turns to Carroll, his closest friend, to confide in him. "She's cheating on me. When I find out who he is ... I'll kill him." He knows it's Carroll, but he gives him an opportunity ... he wants him to confess. Palpable tension between them. Step by step he makes it clearer that he knows it's Aemond. Aemond responds by killing Blanquo. 

The rest goes along as usual ... 

---

# Igraine

The pension left to an officer's wife once sounded so generous--it had seemed a fortune when she looked over the forms as they signed their marriage into being. Igraine squandered it now. She spent it in celebratory ways unbefitting of a recent widow. She sold off assets to but a vacation home. A love nest she would share with some other lover. She never announced her lover in public, not in the social circles in which she ran, but she was not particularly discreet. Everyone knew she had taken a lover already. It was too soon, they all agreed. Or had she a lover all along? How convenient, then, that her husband had been assasinated.

There was speculation, but no proof of anything of course. 

And Aemond Carroll tried to tell her to tone it down, to avoid drawing such attention. She needed to play the part of the grieving widow. At least for a little while. He'd keep away, for this was dangerous, what she was doing. They shouldn't see each other for a while. 

"Are you serious? After what we've done? After all we've done so that we might be together, you are turning me away?"

"Just for a litte while, love. My angel. There is already too much talk. It will kill my carreer. People will ask questions. Questions for which we have no answers. Please ... Just for a little while. One year."

"One year? Why so long, darling?"

"A year will melt away before you know it. We will have many years together. It will be difficult, but before you know it, we will be together. Play it cool. When this passes, I'll come for you. We can play it naturally. Like we're uniting as old friends who share a common loss between us, as we do. It will only be natural for us to look to each other for support. But not now. Not yet. This is too dangerous."

She blamed the unborn child for the troubles. She shopped for fancy clothes and things to make her beautiful again once the child was expelled. She was still young. For another three years, at least, she could be beautiful. 

She had no name for the child when he came. The midwife named him Mathuin, after the Great Bear--for he was born with a caul, with thick black hair all over his ears.

Igraine left the child with a wet nurse and booked herself into the penthouse of the Dutchess, grandest of all hotels in the commonwealth. 

Carroll had told her they would meet there, at the Dutchess. So she booked the penthouse suite, and each evening dressed herself in the finest silks, adorned herself with the most beautiful jewels. She wore diamonds and pearls the likes of which will never be seen again. And each evening she dined alone in the restaurant. She was the widow of a hero, and the Dutchess allowed her a standing reservation--a table set for one, but with enough space for two, just in case an old friend chanced to come along--when most people, even officers, had to book their tables months in advance. 

Chef Dominic Gastraux was the toast of the capitol in those days.

But Aemond never showed. Each night she sat alone and dined alone and drank alone, glancing expectantly toward the door every now and again. Hardly at all at first. She was the model of restraint. She would be so pleasantly surprised when he came in and placed his hand on her shoulder.

She sat purposefully with her back to the door. She knew how he, as had her departed husband, hated to do so. They never wanted to leave an entrance or an exit unwatched. They always suspected some sort of attack or hostile threat to manifest. Not even on a conscious level, necessarily. They had themselves so deeply conditioned it was second nature to them. How ironic then, how death had come for her husband. How could he know he was looking the wrong way?

He would come in and place his hand on her shoulder and would reprimand her for sitting with her back to the door, and she would sigh and giggle and with honest relief would exclaim "thank the Groves, then, that you are here to watch over me."

But Aemond never showed. He responded to none of her messages. He had changed his post. His contact information was useless. He left no forwarding address. All she had was his promise that he would one day come for her. She looked over her shoulder more often, more anxiously. After a month or so, she switched seats, so she would see his approach. She was too jumpy now. She would sacrifice the scene she had invisioned for something with a little more grace.

She waited in vain.

She would get old and become hideous before he returned. Her accounts were dwindling, but she held onto the suite. She held onto the dream. Her silks began to sag and wear. She could no longer afford to have them cleaned. 

She ate less and less. She was losing her appetite for the cuisine, which offended Gasteaux greatly, but he was placated by the concierge, who was sympathetic toward her loss, and explained it in terms that would resonate with the great chef. "Some grief strikes fast, killing the fruit of the inner garden like a frost, and some grief comes slow, creeping like a rust or fungus, or root-mites. Give her some time," the concierge said. "We can be gentle with her."

But even the concierge changed his tune when her money ran out. They pushed her from her table to a stool at the bar. She looked tired. The jewels still sparkled and shone, but her eyes were heavy and dark, and her skin had ceased to glow. But still she waited. As long as she could.

And where had her son been? He had been with the wet nurse. And now, he was nearly two years old, and the payments had stopped coming through. Interest on Igraine's debts now outweighed the income of the pension, which seemed so meager now.

The wet nurse dropped the kid off at the bar. She'd been trying to get hold of Igraine for weeks. Mathuin cried like crazy. He didn't want to be left with the scary old 
witch, but there he was. 

She took him upstairs. Left him there for a couple of days, feeding him leftovers and cocktail olives. She would get drunk and hold him in her arms at night, even though he squirmed and complained that she was squeezing him too tight, that she was hurting him. She held him and stroked his hair and kissed it and told him stories about his father. How his father that everyone knew, Blanquo Tintagel, was a good and brave man, but his *true* father, his *secret father,* was even mightier. He was brave and strong and just and he was a truly great man, and one day, Math would grow up to be like him. But before that, even, his father would return and rescue them and take them to live in his magnificent palace and everything would be wonderful.

She tried and tried to contact Aemond Carroll. She was desperate now. She got a message through to him. She would blow the whistle. Out him as a killer. She threatened him. She threatened to go public with certain information, if he wouldn't come and take care of her. 

When the management finally broke the chain on her door to enter and forcibly eject her from the suite, they heard the crying of a todler. 

"Poor little thing's hungry," said one of the security guards, who straightaway picked up the skinny, perhaps-starving child.

"He stinks," said the concierge.

They found Igraine in the bathtub, her face grey and swolen under the surface of the cold water, red with the blood that had flowed from her carefully slashed wrists. 