<!-- DRAFT -->

## Nancy

Nancy stood on his tiptoes, trying to see over the railing and into the plaza down below. He couldn't quite get his head high enough to see more than the tops of plaster spires, painted with glittering blues and whites, sparking beneath the fluorescent lights.

She tugged at him. Pulled his hood from behind, took his hand and lead him away from the rail, away from the edge. He didn't want to move away. He wanted to see. To climb down the stairs and run to the structure, to enter into it and become a part of it. But he went with her, clinging to her hand, snot dripping from his nose. He didn't say anything, and neither did she. She simply led him further, onto a glass-walled stair with black rubber rails moving along at almost the same pace as the gray-slotted treads.

Nancy stared at his little booted feet as they slid upward through space, immobile on the strange slotted metal.

He didn't know where this memory came from, really.

Nancy could picture most of the towns in which he had lived, growing up, and there never was a mall quite like the one he imagined. It seemed to be an amalgamation of dream desires, feelings recollected from childhood, and more recent memories. The castle ... he'd never seen anything like that until a couple of years ago, when he worked on a graveyard crew, building Santa's holiday paradise in the darkest hours of a series of nights. It took about a week. Nancy and maybe eight other guys huddled into the back of a box van for forty-five or an hour, while they drove out the god-forsaken shoppers labyrinth. Decaying space-age architecture he found depressing and lonesome in the light of day seemed somehow, in the quiet hours, decayed, filthy, even more depressing and lousy. 

In the cold dark of the back of the back of that van, Nancy discovered the Atkins diet when he offered to share an orange juice with one of the other guys.

He couldn't see his face, but he knew it. He recognized the voice, and remembered well enough who sat where--he paid enough attention when they all had piled in at the prop company's warehouse. The face was narrow, superficially handsome, fragile. Thin bones. Wispy hair. He had an agent down in Los Angeles, getting him some film work, but he had to “watch his form.” The agent put him on a diet plan.

Okay, but no fruit juice? Nancy didn't understand a diet that banned fruit juice.

No carbs, the guy said, just a lot of protein, or something like it. Didn't really matter. Conversation went nowhere. They may as well have been going nowhere. Rocking back and forth in the freezing blackness in the back of this van. No links to the outside, no landmarks, no scent but the scent of each other. Dirty workwear and faint mold, maybe from the van itself, trying to make conversation about dreams and aspirations, or just juice. Nancy didn't dream the way the other guys did. He dreamt of getting the trucks unloaded, of building the Christmas castle and calling it quits. He dreamt of getting home before dawn, and falling asleep in darkness instead of light. 

He grabbed a supporting two-by-four next to a couple of the other guys, and they moved a section of tower a couple feet at a time. From inside the back of a truck to a spot on the tarmac. 

Each night they unloaded another truck, staged pieces of the castle on the tarmac, and strained their backs carrying them inside, into the plaza. They built the thing higher each night, crawling around inside the thing like wrench-wielding children.

They listened to raucous, profanity-filled music on a boom box.

Every so often, the foreman would bring in a box of donuts, of which Atkins would eat none, but the others would gather around a table and use the opportunity to get to know each other better by talking about their dreams, aspirations, or about pussy.

Once, the foreman brought pizza. Nancy was further mystified by Atkins' reaction. Atkins took a slice, and picked off and ate all the cheese. He put the naked crust  back into the box.

Nancy didn't talk to him anymore, but he didn't really talk to anyone on that crew. The guy who got him the job, he would have talked to him, but Bryson was gone. On to other things. Nancy got his spot on the team, really. He was grateful.

They built that thing up night after night. It was three stories tall. They'd leave it set up for about a month. Day-laboring elves and Santa Clause's would come in, work in the daytime there, trying to bring something magical to children. 

Nancy tried to take something magical from it. He came close several times, crawling around in the highest spires with his wrench, tightening down rusty nuts. The feeling never lasted long. He'd climb down inside the structure, turn a corner, and the boom box would catch his ears, or some conversation working it's way through his peers, and Nancy would think of the back of the box van in the cold and the dark, of the donuts, of the orange juice, and of the kids who'd play near the castle, but wouldn't be able to get in it, who wouldn't be allowed to climb it. And not that he had so much sympathy for kids, or spent so much time thinking about them even, but something caught him, and the magic that was so scarce to begin with diminished a little more.

He never saw the thing in the daytime. He built it up with the other guys, and left it alone until Christmas had come and 

New Year's Eve had gone, and Nancy never went near the labyrinth in the daytime. He came back, and the crew was largely the same when it came time to tear the thing down, though Atkins wasn't among the men this time. Off in Los Angeles? On a high-protein holiday diet? 

They took the thing down piece by piece and laid the sections out on the tarmac, carefully loading them into the container trucks as dawn approached. The foreman watched them closely, and carefully considered the order and placement of each piece. They'd stay locked in the container until next year, and a crew of guys, some the same, some different, would unload them onto that same tarmac and build up the same castle in the same plaza inside that run down labyrinth of a shopping center.

It seemed somehow futile to Nancy. He wasn't on the crew the next year. He loaded up the trucks and shipped off the castle, and never saw it again with his physical eyes, but each year it moved further back through his memories, showing up in places where it did not belong.

It loomed behind him in strange ways, and now troubled dreams and memories alike. He had never seen such a thing as a child, but now it began to creep into his memories. Some mechanism inserted it into places it did not belong. 

* * *

He'd taken a girl home for some holiday. Some girlfriend, years ago. Wanted her to meet his family. Never did that again--took a while to realize the mistake, the promise implied, the promise he didn't see, but she must have. 

The first time he'd done such a thing. Parents pressed him on occasion, nothing serious, but he could feel disappointment flowing from them, through their words. This girl, Lise, was somthing more than the others, he thought. Didn't have any obvious disgusting habits or embarassing tendencies. Independent, attractive. She didn't seem like the type to overstep her boundries.

So he brought her home. He didn't promise a thing, but she must have felt something. The trip was a mistake. She seemed so nice, before. But there, in his little home town, every word out of her mouth carried judgment. Her lips he found so charming at first, with their plump flesh and clever twisting smile, mocked him with needy venom. 

They went out after dinner, meeting some of Nancy's childhood friends for drinks. The bar smelled of sawdust, country music on the juke. 

Introductions passed round the room. "Marko, Lise. Lise, James. Tish."

They hit it off, Lise and his friends. They liked the girl. It irritated Nancy, who wondered why he'd never slept with Tish.

He stayed by the jukebox, pretending to study the pages with interest. He'd flip all the way through before making a selection. Flip slowly back, trying to smash the overheard conversation from his mind, bludgeoning it out with capital letters, numbers, song titles, but he couldn't keep it from creeping in his ears, invading and overwhelming his concentration.

"Three more days," she said. "Sunday morning." 

No, no. Not what I'm looking for. Ain't no use. What's the name of that one? On the dark side of the road...

"No, we don't have anything planned."

Don't make plans. Where is it? Something will work here. Nancy tired of the box, jammed at the keys with his fingers. Queing up Don't Think Twice, It's All Right. You're the reason I'm travelling on, but don't think twice.

"I'm sure we'd love too, so long as Nan doesn't have us set for dinner with the fam or something--Honey?"

He cringed inwardly at the word, but as they walked home an hour or two later, he'd pretty well forgotten about it, their minds together smoothed over by several rounds of drinks. She looked at him from behind long, flickering lashes, eyes glowing like a pool lit by submerged lights within.

He slid a hand into the back pocket of her jeans, and pushed her from the road onto a dirt path.

"Nancy," she giggled. "Should I be frightened?"

"Oh yes," he said, biting her neck as he positioned himself behind her, pulling her hips into him with one hand, reaching inside her blouse with the other to squeeze her breast, feeling the thin and delicate mesh of her bra catch on his calloused fingers as he pinched her nipple between them.

He drove her before him along the path, pushing her, biting at her, pawing at her smooth, cool flesh.

"I used to go to school here," he said, when the path led them from the wide-spaced trees. A field before them. Chain-link fences with lifted skirts and split seams. "When I was just a little guy. That's where I'd eat my lunch." With a hand on either side of her head, he forced her attention toward a row of wooden picnic tables, spaced evenly along the mock-drawbridge of the sparkling castle. Blue-white spires pierced through low, wispy fog, slicing through the veil to reveal heavens beyond. A few bright stars and the gibbous moon visible through the gash.

Nancy led Lise to a table and lifted her onto its narrow edge--the edge without bench. He clawed at her belt, tore it open and ripped her jeans down. He couldn't get them over her shoes, so he left them bunched at her ankles. He ducked into the loop and chewed at her thighs, attacked her cunt with his mouth while she moaned and pulled at his hair.

The table slid along the drawbridge. Or the drawbridge slid through space, pulling the table and its entwined occupants into the maw of the castle like a tongue pulling the eucharistic wafer into the mouth of a supplicant.

They fucked there, in the heart of that castle of mock-ice, and afterward, they climbed its tallest tower, pulling themselves up one level at a time, grabbing rusty bolts for handholds, bracing bodies between two-by-fours. 

<!-- TODO: ancillary spikes of light - this sentence could be mighty, but it needs some help -->

Up close, they could see how chipped the paint, how worn the surfaces, how fragile the illusion. They sat in a hollow at the top of the tower and looked up at the trailing wound in the fog cover, marvelling at the fierceness of the gibbous moon and its ancillary spikes of light.

He wanted to let go of her hand, irritated at the way their palms felt, claustrophobic, sticky with sweat, but he held it while they talked. 

"Don't call me things like that," he said.

"Things like what?"

"Like 'Honey.'"

She looked at him. The sweat between their palms cooled to an icy slick. "Honey...." She took her hand away, wiped it on the leg of her jeans. 

"Do you think you need to prove something to my friends? What's the idea, making plans with them without talking to me? You know I've got something planned."

"You've got something planned?"

"Dammit. What's the matter with you? Are you even in there? It's like you've just checked out. What are you doing here?"

"What am I--"

"Quit it. I know you can speak like an adult. You know it, too. Try to behave like one, while you're at it."

"I'm here because you asked me to come," she said, clutching her knees to her chest and looking up at the moon.

Their relationship didn't last much longer than that. They stayed for the last few days of their trip, and Nancy thought things had taken a turn for the better. Lise kept her opinions a little more to herself, stopped saying embarassing things in front of Nancy's family. She didn't complain, or even question when Nancy cancelled the plans she had made with his friends. She settled into a more relaxed attitude, and Nancy thoroughly enjoyed the last couple nights of their stay.

He was taken aback when his father approached him and asked if they'd gotten in a fight.

"What? No." Nancy laughed. "We're doing great, dad. Just great. Had a little talk about some things. The future and all. Things are good. Really good."

"Okay son," his father said, looking him in the eyes, his hands on Nancy's shoulders, holding him at arms length. "Glad to here it. We like her, your mother and I. Be good to her."

"Of course I'll be good to her."

Of course he was good to her. And things should have been great. But when they got back home, he and Lise just sort of drifted apart. They talked a few times more. He told her a few things she could to do to better herself, but she either wasn't interested, or just couldn't get her shit together.

That was that, and there was the Christmas Castle, in another memory where it didn't belong. In another memory where it had not initially been.

---

Nancy stumbled down the rocky path, wanting to get away from the noise and conversation and the fire. He could feel the salt air blowing over him, tingling his flesh. The slight, sweet tang of rotting kelp stung his nostrils. Disgusted with words, disgusted with company, he wanted to touch the water. To sit upon it's edge and stare up into the heavens, to catch the moon in his large, wet eye and drink the milk from the drinking gourd. No more of this beaten path, no more of this thoughtless course, this drinking 'till dawn or collapse overtakes you. No more of this laying with easy women. 

Not to say that he failed to find joy in those things. He did find joy. He was only tired of taking what was offered. He couldn't phrase his discontent, couldn't understand it in terms of a simple or declarative statement. He wanted for something, and couldn't satisfy his want. Dissatisfaction vague and vast filled him with each breath, and could find no escape. Like a one-way valve in his throat, letting malaise into his body breath by breath, but never letting it out. Never an exit. He imagined himself as a goose with its asshole stitched shut, being force-fed the richest things in life.

Before abandoning the fire, he'd turned to Pope and asked him "Do you ever ..." he got stuck there, his little boat caught, hung up on the rocks of his awkward phrase.

"Do I ever," Pope said with bravado and a wink and a nudge. He tossed back the rest of his beer and threw the can into the fire. He held out a hand to Jane, who sat on a cooler, a little further from Nancy. She took to her feet, opened the plastic box and slapped a wet can of beer into Pope's hand. He tossed that one to Nancy, and reached his hand back toward Jane, without looking at her. She slapped another wet can into his hand and resumed her seat.

Cracks and hissing from cool wet cans, and hissing and popping from hot dry fire, slurps and a belch from the boys, and Nancy tried again. "You know that feeling when you want something? You want something, but you're not sure quite what it is. You're not hungry, or thirsty. You don't want to fuck, necessarily. You want to do something, to consume something, and whatever you do, you can't..."

Jane nodded. Listening now as she hadn't been earlier. "You mean, when a cigarette just doesn't cut it," she said.

"Exactly."

After a moment of staring into the flames, Nancy stood up and took his beer down the rocky path toward the water, stumbling slightly as he went.

The salt breeze kissed his skin with fleeting lips. The smell of rotting kelp clutched at him, creeping into his mouth and filling him with the sweet flavor of decay.

He walked down to the water, trying to come to terms with an unfamiliar feeling. Desire for something beyond his reach, without there being a thing. What he felt, he felt more as a lack of desire for something beyond him. What he felt, perhaps, was the absence of drive, the absence of motivation to reach beyond what offered itself to him.

Buddhists talk of killing desire, he thought. Desire is the root of suffering. Nancy embraced the concept. He tried to be pleased, to be thrilled with the moment, whatever that moment might be. To be satisfied with the drink in his hand, and the girl beside him. To be fulfilled by the conversation that fell upon his ears and flowed from his mouth. It had long worked as the underlying psychological model of his system. We suffer because we want what we can't have, he told himself. We suffer because we want.

He wanted a cigarette, so he lit one. It didn't cut it. 

He threw it away, flicking it into the sand, watching the fiery ember arc through the sea-cool darkness and explode in a shower of orange sparks.

He wanted to touch the water. To look up into the cold face of the moon. He wanted to fill the emptiness with something ineffable. With sensation. With desire.

## Layla

Layla was just entering high school. She knew she was different from most other kids, but it didn't seem to bother her. She had her own ways of looking at things, her own coping mechanisms.

She had begun her schoolastic career at home, schooled by her nanny, who initially had a great difficulty with Layla. The nanny was a former schoolteacher, and had some experience in matters of education, but never had she met a child so stubborn and obstinate as young Layla.

She was intelligent enough, but awkward and a bit clumsy. 

She had little capacity for abstraction or metaphor, and she took each word at precisely its face value.

This drove Norma crazy for a good stretch of time, for Layla would follow the letter of her instructions without any consideration for the spirit in which they were offered. She seemed stubborn to the point of mischief. 

Norma exploded with anger on more than a few occasions, and Layla, faced with her rage, would stammer and repeat Norma's angry phrases without hardly moving. Stiff as a board, her fists clenched at her sides, echoing back Norma's exasperated shouts before she took off in a run, heading into some corner where she wouldn't be found for hours. She loved to crawl into the dumbwaiter and lift herself into a position between floors. She'd sit there for an hour or more, arms wrapped around her knees, clutching them to her chest. 

Norma couldn't believe the girl's strength when she first found her in the dumbwaiter. She had scoured the entire house and circled the property several times. If the driver hadn't been sitting out in the sun by the gatehouse ... if he hadn't been able to tell her emphatically "No. I ain't seen Layla at all. Didn't come this way." Norma would have called the police.

Instead she enlisted Manny's help. The two of them circled the property another time, each moving in opposite directions. They met up round the back and looked at each other dumbly. 

Mannny shrugged and scratched his head. "Why don't you check in the house one more time," he said. "I'll do another loop around the outside here."

"Thank you, Manny. I swear, that girl."

"What's she done now, anyhow?" Manny asked.

"Oh, you know the how little miss can be. She's just so ...stubborn."

"Yes she is. Whatever she done, you came out here looking like you were ready to tear her head clean off." Manny chuckled, his voice deep, crackling with the sound of splitting logs.

"You know, I don't even remember what started it off." Norma laughed a little herself, and took a deep breath. The first one she had drawn in an hour or more, it seemed. She felt her face relax into an easy smile, and she stood for a long moment, studying Manny's face. "If she doesn't turn up soon ..." she said, trailing off. "Oh, I hope she's all right," her face drew tight with severity once again.

"She'll be just fine, I'm sure," said Manny, easily. "Go on and get back in the house and take another look around. I'll see you in a minute."

He watched her walk up the back steps. When the door closed behind her, Manny let out a sigh, smacked his cap once or twice against his thigh and put it back on his head.

He knew a spot or two where Layla was likely to hide out when things got to be a little much for her, but he didn't want to abuse that knowledge. He woulndn't give away her secret hideaways. Not if he didn't have to. He wasn't sure if Layla knew just how much he did know. He took a wide, elliptical route toward the big black oak. It had a little nook in the branches about fifteen feet up there. He knew Layla liked to sit up in that spot and just watch the world go round when she was so inclined. 

But when he got there, after calling out her name as he walked a wide path, so as not to seem like he went straight for the big old tree, she wasn't there. Neither was she in or around the rock pile behind the tool shed. Nor by the fountain she often insisted on using as a swimming pool.

Meanwhile, back in the house, Norma eventually came to the dumbwaiter. From the kitchen, she called up the shaft. She got no response, but reached in and took hold of the rope and gave it a gentle tug. The pulley way up in the attic creaked out, and the frame started to move toward her, squeaking and squawking on its rails as it descended. As abruptly as the thing had started its downward motion, it came to an elastic halt. Not the dead immediate stop of the end of the line, of wood on wood or wood on metal or metal on metal, but a halt none the less. There was a little give, and the thing would go no further. 

Norma called out again, "Layla! Are you in there? Come on down. Let go of the rope."

There was, of course, no reply. Norma pulled on the other rope, and she could hear the squeaking of the pulley above, and the sound of the dumbwaiter clattering along its rails as it lifted up a foot or so. Then she heard a little vocal grunt, and the thing came to a stop once again.

They went back and forth like this a few times, and Norma finally laid all her weight into the work, and dragged the thing down by sheer determination, force of will--fuelled by her again-increasing anger--and superiority of weight. 

She finally pulled the little girl from the lift in sweaty exasperation, just as Manny stepped into the kitchen. "Norma? Did you hear me calling?" he asked.

She hadn't. She was too absorbed in the tug of war. It took a half an hour for her to win, and she had rope-burns and blisters on her hands.

Layla too had blisters. The palms of her hands were rope-burnt, torn and bloodied. There were red stains on her dress. She was white as a ghost, and muttering to herself "let go of the rope, of the rope, letgooftherope, let go, let gotherope ..."

Manny took Norma into a drawing room and sat her down. "Wait here," he told her. He went back into the kitchen, singing deep and soft, not quite under his breath, but close.

He took Layla upstairs, cleaned her hands and rubbed them with antiseptic ointment. She insisted he wrap her hands with copious amounts of gauze, and so he bandaged up her little hands and sent her to bed, now known as the burn-ward.

Manny went back downstairs and took Norma by the elbow. She didn't say a word to him as he led her upstairs to the same medicine cabinet, still softly singing as he cleaned her hands and spread the antiseptic ointment with the gentle touch of his strong and calloused hands.

---

Layla stood, shoulders knotted tighly together, fists at her sides, as Sam fussed with her hair.

"I don't know how you get through like this," Sam said. "You were actually going to go out of the house with that haystack on your head. Girl, I don't know what you would do without me."

"Well, I'd be out of the house already, and we wouldn't be late," Layla said. 

"Look, we're supposed to be late," Sam said.

"That doesn't make any sense. We told them we'd get there at seven o clock, and we're not going to. They're expecting us, and we're going to be late. It's not proper. If we wanted to show up at seven thirty, we should have told them seven thirty."

"I agree with what you're saying," Sam said, looking a little more satisfied with Layla's hair. She reached into her purse and pulled out a tube of lipstick. "Make a kissy face. No, nevermind, just open your mouth a little. I agree with what you're saying, but you're overlooking something."

Layla wanted to respond, but not with that infernal tube of sweet greasy-smelling stuff pressed to her lips, so she just let out a moan both annoyed and inquisitive.

"We are expected to make the boys wait. They know this, and when we tell them seven o clock, they know we mean seven thirty at the earliest. It's a part of the game, the rules are just a bit trickier than they seem on the surface. There we go."

"Not trickier, just changing. Can't change the rules all the time. Can we go?"

"Almost. What about your shoes?"

"I want to wear these."

"I'm not changing the rules, I swear. You are not wearing those fuzzy boots. We take longer to get there in order to make them wait, so they're more excited when we get there. Anticipation having time to work on them and all, and also--we don't have to endure their dreary conversation for quite so long as otherwise."

"I am wearing these boots."

"Look, we can't leave yet anyhow. They'll be scared out of their wits if we show up now. I'm telling you. When we agreed to seven o clock, it means seven thirty at the earliest, eight o clock at the latest."

"Okay."

"Okay? Okay what? You're changing your boots?"

"Okay, seven means seven thirty."

"So lets try on some other shoes."

Layla humored her, they went back into her bedroom and looked in the closet. She didn't have the kinds of shoes Sam wanted her to wear, apparently, but she reluctantly approved of some relatively plain leather loafers. 

"Oh god, Layla. We're going shopping next week." Layla knew Sam well enough to know that the proposed shopping trip would never happen, which was just fine with her. But she kept her mouth shut anyhow.

Downstairs, they passed Layla's father on their way to the front door. "Be safe now, girls," he said. "And remember: home by eleven."

"Do you mean eleven thirty when you say that?"

"What on earth are you talking about? When I say home by eleven, that's exactly what I mean. Home. By. Eleven. Get it?"

Layla looked at Sam with defiant accusation. "See? Eleven is eleven."

"Right," Sam said, giggling nervously. "You see, Mister Kryczyk, I was just telling her, while we were getting ready, about how, when we've agreed to meet someone--when a girl agrees to meet someone--to meet a guy, specifically, I guess, that we're pretty well expected to keep them waiting a little. It's part of the normal social order. We've told the boys we'd meet them at seven o clock, but they know we really mean seven thirty. And they'd be, you know, surprised, if we were to show up any earlier than seven thirty, when we've told them seven. That's what I was telling her. But, Layla, that doesn't really apply to curfew or when your dad tells you to get home by...."

"Well, she's right more or less," said Mr Kryczyk. "Not that I really recommend it as policy, but what she's saying is pretty well to be expected, in my own experience."

"Thanks, Mister Kryczyk," Sam said, placing her hand on the back of his, and quickly taking it away. She gave a little dip as if the faintest suggestion of a mock curtsey as she turned away and walked out the front door.

"Bye Dad."

"Have fun, Layla."

Manny held the back door of the Lincoln open for them, and closed it after the two girls slid in. He got in the front seat and eased the car down the drive.

---

Nancy threw a suitcase onto the bed, undid the zipper, and let the lid flap wide open. Footsteps paced nervously in the next room.

"... wish you wouldn't do this ..."

"What's that?" he asked. 

"I wish you wouldn't do this." Another girl. Another name in Lise's place.

"Oh come on. What do you expect me to do?"

He pulled his pants out of a drawer, half folded, half rolled them, and tucked them into a corner of the suitcase. "This isn't quite working how I'd hoped."

"And how's that, Nancy?"

"I didn't expect you to be such a bitch, for a start."

"Fuck you. Half an hour ago, you couldn't say enough sweet things to me. And this, what, 'cause I wouldn't sleep with you?"

"What are you talking about, 'this?' There ain't no 'this.' I was just trying to do a nice thing for you. But you just don't get it. You twist every damn thing around to make it everything about you. To make me somehow responsible for everything going wrong in your shitty life."

"In my shitty life?"

Socks went in. A spare shirt. He left the bedside, cold-shouldered past her and into the bathroom for his bag of toiletries. That sailed through the air and into the open case.

"I just don't get what you're trying to do. Why do you have to get all freaked out and weird just now?"

"You really don't pay any attention, do you?"

"Of course I fucking pay attention. Don't you pay any attention. I brought you down here, 'cause I know things have been tough in your life lately. You need a break, I get it. That's why we do the little get-away. A nice hotel, down by the beach, some nice meals. Hiking around in fucking nature. What do you think we're doing here? Drinking champagne and sitting in the hottub. I'm trying not to pressure you, but you don't fucking listen. I told you, there ain't shit you can do about your mother. She's dead."

"She is not dead."

"Pretty much, she is. And there's nothing you can do about it. Just let that shit go. Live your own life. You can't let this menial shit bog you down and take over your life."

"Menial Shit? Take over my life?"

"Right. Don't do that."

"Your such an insensitive prick. And you expect me to fuck you?"

"Well, fuck. I am paying for the hotel. I bought the champagne, took you out to dinner, took you hiking up in the fucking hills, down by the beach. Yeah, I want a little romance. I'm trying to make shit happen. A blow job at least would be in order."

"A blow job would be in order? You are killing me. Goddamn it, if we were a hundred miles closer to home, I'd take a cab. Can't you see what you're doing?"

"I'm trying to do something nice for you, and you just cant take it without being a selfish ..."

"Something nice for me? You bring me down here, and tell me it isn't my responsibility to take care of my family? Whose responsibility is it, then? Huh? Tell me my mother--fucking sick in the hospital, losing her fucking skin--will do fine without me? Just forget about her bills, her house, all her fucking stuff? Somebody has to deal with that. I appreciate that you're trying to do something nice, but maybe a little further down the road would have made a little more sense. Maybe after some of the shit got taken care of. She's fading in and out, the house has to be sold to meet any of her medical costs. I'm trying to save the most important of her things, but it's got to get empty, now. I haven't told her 'cause it would break her heart to know I'm selling the house, but it doesn't matter, 'cause she won't even make it out of the hospital. Do you help me clean out the house? No. Do you do any fucking thing useful to me? No. You drag me down the coast without telling me a goddamn thing about where we're going, making it sound like some family emergency..."

"I wanted it to be a surprise for you..."

"Well, it was a surprise. Let me tell you. I fucking put all my shit on hold, because you said you needed me. You let me believe your fucking brother had an accident, and all I could think... Well, there were two things I could think. I thought, how terrible for this to happen now, for both of us to have such terrible things happening in our lives, I was scared that I wouldn't be able to be strong for you, and give you the support you needed; and I thought--oh god, I felt so guilty. I felt like such an insensitive bitch--I don't have time for this, I thought. I thought, I can't deal with your shit now. Your brother got hurt, he'll either get better or not, I thought. I thought, fuck your brother, I thought, what an asshole for getting hurt now, at a time like this. In the back of my mind, all the things I should be doing, I told myself, all the things that needed my attention, and I was walking out on them, putting them aside in favor of you. When you needed me. I felt terrible for being distracted. For thinking of those things when I should have been thinking of your brother, of you. And you want to drink champagne, have a hottub, and you want me to suck your dick because you took me for a hike. I thought you were scared to see your brother. Scared about how bad he might be. Scared about how close to the end we all are. I understood that, 'cause I've been thinking it. How shallow of me, I thought, to think that you might be feeling otherwise. You've been around me. You know what I'm going through. A death in your family would be like a death in mine to me. 

"But you ... you don't thing to help me with any of the shit I have to do. You only think of yourself. You and your goddamned cock."

Nancy zipped his bag shut and hoisted it off the bed with an angry jerk. "What, are you stupid?" he said. "I've fucking told you what you could do to get your shit together. You want to obsess about things beyond your control, about death and the inevitability of fucking whatever... Fine. Just don't expect me to stick around through your self-destructive, fucking, masochistic ways. I don't need this. I'm trying to do something nice for you, but you--of course--see nothing but, fucking, whatever morbid shit it is you are seeing. 

"Get in the car."

"Get in the car? With you?"

"Get your shit together and put it in the car and get in the car. I'll take you to your goddamned mother's house. Fuck."

---

Layla's father was an excellent piano player. He taught music at the girl's high school. Often, he tutored students at his home. Sam was one of his favorites. "God-given talent," he said when she arrived, ushering her back into his study, where the humble-looking upright piano squatted against the wall, surrounded by shelves of books built up and around it. Next to and on the sides. It was the only object not covered with irregular stacks of papers, leaning towers of text. Always clean, never dust built up on the instrument as it was over the other elements of his study. Walter Kryczyk never let the maid into his study. He never let Mrs Kryczyk into his study. He never let anyone into his study, other than the few lucky students whom he had elected to tutor outside of school hours. 

Sam was his favorite. She wore a short pleated skirt of stiff wool and high heeled shoes. 

Layla watched her from the shadows as her father ushered Sam into the study. Layla couldn't stand the sight of the skirt or the shoes. The stiff wool made her throat itch, made her itch around her waist, where the thing would have squeezed her uncomfortably, had she been wearing it, it made her thighs itch, her butt itch. Uncomfortable tinglings moved up and down her spine. The shoes were worse. She had to sit down in the stairwell and rub her feet when she saw Sam's shoes. She wanted to boil them. Soften up the leather. Make soup. Maybe eat them. Probably she wouldn't eat them, but if she boiled them into soup, nobody would ever have to wear them again.

She didn't really care about Sam's clothes. She always dressed like that. Said it was comfortable, looking good for the boys, for the men.

Layla didn't care about that. She did care about the music. She would lean up against the door, placing her ear on it, while her father tutored Sam, or any of the other girls. The piano was wonderful, when there was a girl in there who could play.

Some of the girls could not play. Sam could play beautifully. Layla would lean up against the door, put her ear to it and listen. The music made her light headed. The tinkling percussion of the high notes flashed in her mind's eye like sparks, little flashes of light, different colors, depending on the key. Deep sustaining bass tones carried her aloft, lifting her out of her body. 

Some of the other girls played horribly, they abused Hindemith's excercises in such a way to transform their sharp yellow edges into ess eightch eye tea colored knives that stabbed her with messy filth, hurting her ears, making her nauseous. 

Sometimes they were so bad, she had to run out into the yard. She pulled her dress up and over her head and off and threw it on the ground by the tool shed and stepped lightly into the fountain, trying not to make a splash as she lowered herself in, submerging herself in the water so that the sound was taken away. It was pure ... not quite silence, but close. Peace. She could feel her hair sweeeping out around her face, floating in silent darkness, and all the sound just faded away behind the hiss and the hum and the rush of her blood moving through her body, and the water splashing down upon itself, and then the hostile visions would fade, and she'd relax, with just her nose above the surface of the water, and breathe deep, and let those awfull arhythmic dischordant sounds melt away. She'd replace them with words in her mind. She'd sit there half floating in the shallow pool, going over words in her mind. Speech excercises from her classes, poetry she adored, for she loved to read, mouthing out each syllable to herself, calling out words in the night without care for their meaning, feeling sharp consonants slice and hack and hum and pop around the luscious vowels that filled her mouth with their full, soft shapes. She'd sit, with her mouth under the surface of the water, and feel the liquid fill her mouth, feel how it slowed the movements as she shaped the now-silent forms, pushing out the water into water as she went, slowly replacing the horrid music with the majestic sounds of poetry.

> if any now hold himself bold enough,  
> if any so hot-blooded or hare-brained,  
> has the stomach to strike one stroke for another,  
> I'll five him the gift of this beautiful battle-axe  
> which weighs heavy enough for his every wish.  
> And I shall bear the first blow sitting, bare-necked.  
> Now if any man has the mettle to meet my challenge  
> let him step down and seize this weapon -  
> there, I throw it down, let him take it as his own.  
> if he but allow me to return that blow however  
 
>>> I may;   

>> and yet I'll give him respite:   
>> a whole year, plus a day -    
>> so, if your liver's not white,    
>> quick now, who's ready to say?[^fn1]

[^fn1]: Sir Gawain and the Green Knight
> translated by Keith Harrison

But not so with sly Sam. Her fingers tickled and pounded the keys and the music came gloriously between Father and the Girl, though she might occasionally cry out "Mr. Kryczyk!" and stumble across the climax of a particularly triumphant phrase, her voice pitched high, and with a hint of shock, but mostly jest.

Layla could see, in her mind's eye, how Sam would toss her hair, just a touch, and turn and glare, her face directed down, at him she aimed her crown, and eyes wide, brows arched high, she'd be looking up at him, that tone they might call mocking in her voice.

"Now. Keep. It. Together," Father would say, his voice straining, if only a little. "Concentrate."

And the phrasing would of course recover, and the music would resume, the glorious turnings of key and phrase, and if the silence between exercises extended, Layla would practice the motions she pictured Sam carrying out inside the room. Tossing her hair a touch, a turn, a glare. She knew her mannerisms well, and often mimicked her at school. Not to embarass or tease or humilliate her, not to draw attention or mock her, but because Sam was beautiful, and Layla was a marvelous mimic. The kids all said as much, their group of friends cheered her on at times. "Oh, do me!" "Yes, and now me." "How about Tina?" "Mister McCutty!" "Oooo ... Do Mr. Kryczyk...."

And she would do these magnificent little impressions, capturing tone of voice, phrasing, accents and all. Sometimes, though, these impressions did degenerate into mockery, mostly under the encouragement of the other girls. But for the most part, she really only would mimic someone she wanted to be like in some way. Someone pretty.

When Sam came to school with a broken leg, Layla went home and insisted to her mother that her own leg was broken. She wouldn't walk on it, lean on it, put any weight on it at all. Nor would she let the matter go. She hounded her mother, who finally exploded. "If you do not want your leg broken for real, go and play with Norma."

Norma wrapped Layla's leg in gauze and laid on flour-paste to make the semblance of a cast. 

Overjoyed, Layla hobbled around the yard for hours, playing with sticks she had picked out to be her perfect crutches. 

She might have kept the thing on for days, but in the evening, her Mother and Father fought with such fury and rage, that it overwhelmed Layla. She couldn't handle the words they used, sharp and dangerous, not off-balance or awkward, lopsided or too heavy or too light for their intended purpose, their words were well designed weapons. They had been used in countless wars, and would be used in countless more, facilitating the acceleration of conflict backward and forwar through time, those words. 

They wounded Layla, they cut her, entered into the wounds, and expanded, filling her with graceless pain. They shattered the beauty of her protective, healing cast, they distorted the symmetry between Layla and Sam. The cast, that thing holding the two of them together, melted away in the water of the fountain. She held her head under, and let the liquid fill her ears, press in upon her from all sides, forming a soft and cradling cocoon that blocked out all the hostile noise as it came from her parents throats. In the fountain, submerged in the little pool, all was peace. All was calm and quiet and soothing. Time stood still, meaning nothing for a good while.

Flour paste dissolved in the water, making it milky and slimy where the flour began to settle. Layla felt it gumming her eyelids, but didn't care. She kept them pressed tight and sat in cool silence, Imagining the boat that carried Tristan to Isolde, accross the silent stretch of sea. The stretch of sea, silent between the screaming shores, angry hordes on each, and in between, a little vessel. A vessel of calm and devotion and song. Tristan played his harp as the winds carried him accross the water. Layla began to work her vocal chords, moving her lips and moaning beneath the surface of the water. The moans, the gentle, overwhelming sound of her own voice in her own ears served further to wash her thoughts clean. 

She chased away the sounds of violence beneath the surface of the little pool, and her own voice chased away her own violent thoughts. Encouraged by the cold envelope of safety, she moaned louder, shaping abstract vowels and shapes in her mouth.

Manny heard her, and came running up from the gate house. He stood for a moment, once he could see that she wasn't struggling, and that she could breathe just fine. 

He looked up at the main house, from which the sounds of violent verbal discourse clearly emanated. A breaking glass rang out.

He looked back into the milky, slimy waters of the fountain, and at the little girl laying on her back, nose and lips and little else above the surface of the water, save her hand, as it clutched the stone lip of the fountain, as if for support. Her eyes were closed, her leg was wrapped in a tattered, fuzzy, gummy mash of cloth. The water was milky and clouded.

Manny looked back and forth a few times, looking up and the house and over at the little fountain. He wasn't quite sure if he was looking for something specific, or just shaking his head. It diddn't much matter. He opened his mouth and let out a roar of laughter that Layla heard, even beneath the water.

She jumped, sat halfway up with a start and stared incredulously at Manny. His laughter had no place in the conceptual cosmology of her liquid escapism.

Manny walked over and picked her up and out of the water. He brought her down to the gatehouse, where his own quarters were, and brought out a washcloth and towel. He wiped the gummy flour-paste from her face and dried her as best he could. She, meanwhile, began to copy his laugh, the deep laugh that had so startled her from her reverie in the pool. She imitated his mannerisms and his accent, and as he went about his business, she went about it too.

He gave her dry clothes to change into, and left her alone to shower and change, if she chose. She did not shower, but did put on his clothes. She was happy just to wipe off the stickiest of the muck, and put on a pair of his trousers and a shirt. Much to large for her, they hung comically from her slender frame.

"Come on out of that water, little lady," she said, miming the motions of dusting her hands, slapping them together with canny aptitude, wiping imaginary grease on an invisible rag.

From the next room, Manny called in response, "What's that, little lady?" He knocked with gentle firmness on the door. "You dressed?"

"You're liable to catch a death in there. All soaking wet, it's dark out, girl."

"I said, you decent?"

"I'm dressed, if that's what you mean. Are you decent?"

"I sure hope so," Manny said, entering the room, a wide grin stretching his face. "You want something to drink?"

"Something to drink."

"How 'bout a little cocoa?" Manny asked. He turned to the stove, twisted a knob until a loud and steady hissing sound filled the room.

Manny struck a match. The flame didn't catch. A little spark flew from the phosphorus, arcing across the room to fall at layla's feet.

"A shooting star," she said.

Manny tossed the spoilt match into the sink and tried another, striking it on the bottom of a cast-iron skillet that hung above the stove. This time the match head flared and the flame caught. 

The back burner whooshed into life and began to lick the little saucepan with bluegreen tongues of fire. Manny pulled a glass milk bottle from a little bar fridge. He poured a healthy share into the bottom of the thin metal pan, which had taken the heat quickly. It hissed as the first splashes of milk fell into it, though they quickly settled into silence. He lifted a yellow hexagonal box from the pantry and pulled a wooden spoon from a drawer. He stirred the milk with the wooden spoon, grabbed a saucer from a folding wooden dishrack--reclining in the unfolded position atop the little bar fridge. He placed the saucer carefully on the counter next to the stove, and laid the spoon across it, so the milky bits were on the little plate, though the handle lay naked on the counter.

Manny opened the yellow box and withdrew a sparkling brown wedge of drinking chocolate. He placed this in the plate, and crushed it against the back of the wet wooden spoon. It crumbled easily, transforming quickly from solid sparkling wedge to chunky paste. Saucer in his left hand, wooden spoon in his right, he scraped the chocolate into the heating milk and stirred it with the wooden spoon. He replaced the saucer on the small bit of counter space next to the stove, and reached into the cabinet for a jar of honey, which he placed next the the saucer.

"Queen bee," said Layla. "The I'm the bee. The queen mother."

"Whatever you say, Miss," Manny said, chuckling again.

Layla chuckled in response. 

Manny stirred the cocoa, looking at her with his wide grin. "You look funny in my clothes," he said. "They don't fit you right."

Sitting outside of her father's study, Layla seldom thought of such things. But when the music stopped, the strained awkwardness of the voices--her father's voice and Sam's voice--somehow reminded her of that time out in the gate house, wearing Manny's clothes. The way he looked at her as he made the cocoa. Spiked it with a little rum, after an inquisitive look at her, with bottle held in hand, above their steaming mugs. 

She nodded in brief approval and he poured a healthy splash into their sweet scalded drinks.

She wished Sam would get back to the piano. There were other sounds coming from the study, but not the gentle sounds of piano music. Harsh instructions, she heard. Her father's voice, insistent, forceful, though she couldn't make out words. She didn't want to make out words, they felt odd against her ears. Sam giggled, and there was a sound as of stacks of papers overturned, falling onto the ground.

"Get back to the piano!" shouted Layla. "Back to the piano!"

More stacks overturned. Books falling from shelves. Commotion on the other side of the door. Mashed keys on the piano. Too many at once, dischordant, blurring Layla's vision.

Layla's mother came along, just at that moment.

"Can't you keep it down, you odd little girl?" her mother asked. "Must you comment on every occasion?"

"Sorry, Mom. Sorry," Layla said in response.

"Oh, for Christ's sake, girl. I have a name. It wouldn't hurt you to use it."

"Hurt you to use it."

"Stop that, Layla."

"Layla. Yes. Deborah. Yes, Deborah," Layla said, answering her mother with neutral inflection. Her voice began shaky and thin, but gathered force and momentum with each cycle of consonant-enclosed vowels, until she was near shouting, "Yes, Deborah, yes Mother, Yes Deborah. Mother dear. Yes, I have a name Dear," and her mother, Mrs. Deborah Kryczyk, answered her with the palm of her hand. She slapped the words from Layla's mouth. 

Layla squatted slumped in the hallway at the foot of the stairs, sitting on her haunches and leaning heavily on the wall just to the side of the door to her father's study. Not a sound issued from within the study, or from Layla's mouth or from Mrs. Deborah Kryczyk's mouth.

After a long silence, Layla began to speak. "Break not, O woman-s heart," she said, "but still endure. Break not, for thou art royal, but endure."

"Ah yes, child. That rings a bell," said the mother. "What is that from? No, don't tell me."

Layla looked into her mother's eyes for a moment, then tossed her hair, ever so slightly. 

> "ever and anon the wolf would steal  
> the children and devour, but now and then,  
> her own brood lost or dead, lent her fierce teat  
> to human sucklings; and the children, housed   
> in her foul den, there at their meat would growl,   
> and mock their foster-mother on four feet,    
> till, straighten'd, they grew up to be wolf-like men,   
> worse than the wolves."

"Ah yes ... beautiful, isn't it?" Mother's eyes began to twinkle in cocoa-crystal light, deep earthy glow gleaming like cut chocolate diamond. "That is, Tennyson, Idylls of the King? Yes. I'm sure of it."

And shortly thereafter, Mother walked on her way back up the stairs, a distant look in her eyes, and all was silent for just a short time more. 

Soon, however, the soft and tinkling and carrying sound of the piano resumed from within the study, and after another moment or two, the door creaked gently open, and Walter Kryczyk peered out into the hall. "Is she gone?" he asked. "Is your mother gone?"

"She's gone," Layla said. "Mother's gone. Up the stairs."

"Good," Walter said. "Why don't you get upstairs after her, and make sure she's alright."

Somewhat reluctantly, Layla stood up and climbed the stair after her mother. The study door clicked closed behind her, and soon the music, Sam's lovely playing, stopped. No more piano could be heard from the study. The only sound, to Layla's ears, was the tapping of her slippered feet on the milky, veined marble treads.

The door to Mother's library stood open, slightly. Deep orange light fanned out across the uninviting threshold. Shadows played, dancing back and forth in the dusty beams, as Mother moved about the room. Unshelving books, from the sounds that came forth, somehow out of sync with the movements of shadow and light.

Was it the shadow that moved, or was it the light? If darkness is nothing but the absence of light, then darkness is the natural state of things, light the artificial intruder. If such is the case, then the shadow is not that which moves, the light moves around the shadow, leaving it only as a shifting patch of background, of negative space. Though the shadow seems to move, it is the light which moves around it. The appearance, apprehension of retrograde motion. Sitting in the backseat of the car, Manny in the driver's alone up front, saying nothing, and beside them in the morning the schoolbus, bound for a similar destination. Suddenly Layla clutches the upholstry, nerves in a tangle, for they are drifting, accelerating backward. She hunches her shoulders and looks to the side, begins to turn to look behind them in agonizing slowness, the bus moving across her vision, and finally, when they clear the huge machine, and she can see beyond it, behind its former position, she sees a static landscape. A few trees, a market, a lamppost. They are still. The car has not moved, only the illusion enforced by the motion of the other vehicle. 

The light is like that--could be like that. And the shadow, the Lincoln, with her, with Manny, with Life inside. The shadow, appearing to be animate, but only by this relative relationship. This illusion of retrograde motion. As seen in the heavens. Planets. Wandering stars, moving forth, now back, across the twelve-sectioned circle. Thirty degrees. Thirty degrees. Thirty degrees.

But if darkness is the natural order of things, and light merely the juxtaposition against which darkness gains the illusion of life through contrast alone ...  are we not then creatures of the light, dwelling purely in that illuminative and dynamic force?

But the shadow on the floor ... that is the form of Mother, darkness moving across the light. She is in the light, but of the darkness.

In the light but of the darkness.

In the light but of the darkness.

The shadow no longer moved visibly across the visible space of the threshold. A chair creaked within the library.

"Layla, is that you?" Mother's voice, pleasant and dreamy somehow.

"Inthelightbutofthedarkness," Layla's lips moved without her awareness. She whispered the phrase over and over. How long had she been talking to herself there, in the doorway? Talking to the doorway, to the threshold, to its guardian, to her mother beyond. "In the light but of the darkness," she said, louder, with conscious clarity. She formed each syllable carefully and slowly anunciated the words, projecting them outward from her mouth, to free them, to free herself of them.

"Dear, come in here. Standing alone in the hall, for how long. In the darkness, but of the light, I might say of your position. Hmm?"

Lalya entered the room.

Her mother sat at a table with several hardbound books in front of her, some bound with cloth, some with leather. A red-shaded floor lamp stood nearby, within reach of her right hand, should she extend it.

"Sit down, please," said Deborah.

Layla sat, and folded her hands in her lap. She looked down at her feet. How warm they were in their soft, furry slippers. She raised her eyes, a little. Brought her gaze to the table. To the books there. Mother had Idylls of the King open in front of her. "It's really quite remarkable, you know," she said. "What you can do."

---

"She's sort of a synthesis of her parents," Nancy said, sitting in a booth at some third world diner in some first world town, addressing his words to Pope, patting a pile of typewritten manuscript. "Her father is like, a music teacher. Totally passionate about symphony and the opera and all. A one-time composer, but sort of washed up. Tenured, working at a private school, teaching kids to play the piano, tutoring some in his off time. Used to compose and all that. Minor accolades, but never hit it really big. It's like, he lived his life waiting for passion to overtake him, waiting to be consumed by a fit of creative insanity or something. But it never came. He fell in love with a woman, a poet, a scholar. She had money. Family money. She had passion, but it didn't take her anywhere. Spent all her time wrapped up in books, entangled in words, histories and traditions of poetics and all. He, in love with the music, waiting for passion to overtake him, to take him out of himself. She, in love with the lyric, overwhelmed by passion, locked in the library seventeen hours out of a day, going round in circles, preparing herself for something. The work ahead, he wonders, she doesn't know. Doesn't care about it, even. She's not on the path of creation, instead she saturates herself with the work of others, happily in study for it's own sake.

"They have a child, a girl. An odd girl. She synthesizes. Is the combination of her parents. Music and lyric. She falls in love with the opera, with poetic traditions, with musical themes, motifs, mythological harmonies. Dad was music, instrumental. Mom was poetry, lyric. Daughter is synthesis, the ballad, opera. Particularly obsessed with arthurian themes, she is. A bit literal-minded..."

Pope splashed deep brown hot sauce over his scrambled eggs and moved them around with his fork. Before filling his mouth with food, he used it for another purpose, for words, questioning. "So what?" he said. "What are you actually talking about? What is the point of all this?"

"This is what I'm working on," Nancy said, somewhat taken aback, not quite stammering, but coming close. "It's my thing. My novel."

"Huh," Pope said. "You're writing a novel?"

"Shut the fuck up. You asked me about it."

"Right. What is it about?"

"It's about this girl. She's growing up in this rich family, this well-off family, and she's a little dysfunctional. Kind of obsessive, neurotic. Doesn't quite get certain social cues."

"Who?"

"This girl--"

"No, who?"

"Her name is--"

"No. No. No. Who?"

"Who what?"

"Who cares?"

"People, a lot of people. Intelligent people. Dumbfuck."

"Really? There are a lot of those?"

"Presumably. Somewhere. For some reason, I keep mistaking you for one of them."

"Is that why you keep talking to me about boring shit in the mornings?"

"You're a dumbfuck."

"So you're writing this book about this retarded girl, and--"

"She's not retarded."

"See her, over there? Look at the way her ass moves under that skirt. Boom. Boom. *That* is retarded. Retarded good. Why can't you write about about that? I'd read that one."

"Lovely."

"Excuse me. Miss?"

She came over.

"My friend here could really use a little company. I'm wondering if it might be possible ... when you get off your shift.... You see, he's obsessed with an imaginary retarded girl who lives in that stack of papers there. He was going on and on in this numbing monologue, and I just can't help but watch you, moving around the room, being friendly. And you look so lovely in this little skirt. I was pointing out to my friend here, as you were leaning over that table there to fill a cup, how a guy could really sink his teeth--Ow!--you don't have to kick me, Nancy. Yes, this fellow's name is Nancy. Anyhow, we were talking about how lovely you are. And how real you are--as in, not imaginary. I was pointing out your lovely little skirt and that beautiful little bottom of yours, and Nancy was quite taken with it. What did you call her, Nancy? 'Lovely.' Lovely, he said. Isn't that nice?"

The girl blushed a little, just a little. "You are terrible," she said, and walked on, resting her hand on Pope's shoulder for a moment as she passed.

Pope let out a deep sigh. "Ladies love the Pope. It's no secret."

"How's your girl? Or are you on your own again?"

"Oh, yeah. Fine."

"What?"

"We split."

"Sorry to hear it."

"Its fine. Been two or three months, so I'm just starting to enjoy myself. Getting out. Last night ... Karaoke. I was on fire. Sang like four duets. We met these French Canadian girls...."

"Me and my lady split too."

"Yeah?"

"We were fighting all the time. She didn't really get what I was trying to do for her."

"She didn't get it?"

"She's fucking crazy. Death and retirement and bills. The only shit she ever thinks about. I can't take that. Tried to take her out to the coast for a little romantic-type weekend, and she freaked out on me. Couldn't even relax for a second. Couldn't stop talking about where she'd rather be. Hundred fifty dollars a night, little private hot-tub, and bottles of champagne. Didn't even get laid. Fuck it."

---

With each subsequent lesson, Sam played less piano. Layla sat outside the study door and listened, quietly, hoping to hear the mystical melodies ring out through the wood, through the cracks around, above and below the door, but the music faded, to be replaced by other sounds.

Layla often listened to her father, when he played alone, for he played often when he was alone. But then he played with the door open, and he would chase Layla away if he saw her "skulking about."

And besides, he played complex and angry music, the brightest of which were difficult Rachmaninov pieces, filled with gut-twisting tension, swirling with deep blue-grays, big spiney urchin chords exploding under incessant hammertaps of melody. 

Walter Kryczyk played many of his own compositions as well. He spent many days in the study with manuscript paper laid out around him, crafting dark and twisting passages that amazed and frightened Layla when she heard them. Sometimes she let herself go, let the music wash over her and carry her into its dark labyrinth, but it brought visions. Layla saw demons lurking in shadows. They stuck with her. It would take days sometimes to lose them. Her vision swirled with demented paisley, she lost her sense of self and space and floated in a vast and terrifying nothingness. She began to scream, flailing her fists and feet and frothing at the mouth. She hit her head on the stone corner of the bottom stair and bit her tongue. It took four stitches to seal the wound. So Walter Kryczyk didn't like her hanging around the study when he was composing. He watched for her, and would chase her away. She seldom came anywhere near the study, preferring to be out in the yard, or across the house, or in the neighboring cemetery when she heard the ominous wings of her father's music fly forth from his studio.

Walter didn't notice that she reacted in different ways to different musics. That is not precisely accurate. He noticed that she reacted differently, but he didn't grasp the full range of response she could have to music. It seemed to Walter's experience that his daughter would never share the one true gift he could give her. She seemed to him to either react violently and painfully, or less violently, but still painfully. He understood that music put her ill at ease, and that she had a response spectrum ranging from intensely negative to mildly negative. When he tutored students, they played with the study door closed. He didn't see Layla crouching by the door with anticipation, or lounging on the bottom step with a look of bliss on her face.

It wasn't only her father's music that sat ill with her. Plenty of Mr. Kryczyk's students gave her flashing, unpleasant visions when they sat at the keys. 

There was more too it than the work being performed. Certainly, some pieces were more generally liable to move her in one direction or another, but the player made a world of difference. Each little nuance of skill and performance and expression struck Layla, drawing out varried responses. Her father could play a work that at Sam's fingers, would send Layla into ecstasy, and he would somehow bring out the darkest shapes and forms. The general theme of the piece would be the same, but like looking at a scene through a sheet of cellophane, it would take on the specific coloring of the performer.

Sam was her favorite. Not as technically skilled as some (certainly not nearly so technically skilled as Mr. Kryczyk), but she had a passion that flowed through her hands and her fingers and into the music as she played it.
@@
Layla would sit near the study door, sighing softly on the floor, watching words slip from her lips like wisps of smoke to hang about her, gentle in the air. They swayed and swam and floated there, and she felt herself among them like a sunken pleasure lost at sea, in the center of a swirling school of shimmering fish. She formed them in her mouth, in an act of unconscious spontaneous creation, their silvered bodies alive against her teeth and tongue, directing her shaping by their passing. Some were passages she knew by heart, bits of Gottfried or Eshcenbach swam unbidden from her mouth. Others, she did not know, but recognized. Still more were abstract sounds and shapes that meant nothing to her as they came, meant nothing more than the feeling, the texture of them as they came through the threshold of her lips, some soft and sweet, others rough like a cat's tongue and bitter. These had no more meaning than the feeling they gave, until, circling about her in ever-shifting configurations, they formed new contextual relationships, evolved into poetic musings of such truth and profound beauty it left her breathless. She tried to hang on to these in her mind, at first. She tried to hang on as the school of shining fish accelerated, swirling faster and faster around her. She grew dizzy, and with her arms extended out to either side of her she herself began to spin, helicoptering like the blades of a blender, and her world and the words and the shapes and colors and forms and feelings shifted changing about her, and she trembled and shook at the bottom of an effervescent, boiling sea, and when the music stopped and the bubbles drifted away, collecting in temporary pockets on the ceiling before drifting up through the stairwell and out through windows and chimneys and cracks in the resolve of the physical world--she was left with nothing. Nothing but the perfect feeling of breathless emptiness. She lay gasping for air and grinning and some small part of her held a little dissapointment, a little dissapointment that she had failed to retain the verse that formed in the encirling fish as they swam.

On one particular afternoon, during one of Sam's "sessions," the music stopped abruptly. They had been working on a piece by Massenet. A particular favorite of Sam's, and also a particular favorite of Layla's, through coincidence or design of repetition. 

<!-- TODO: find a specific piece of music here. A favorite of Sam's. Massenet. Put the headphones on, get stone and write through it for a while. Werther? Don Quichotte? -->


Layla had learned years ago not to disturb their sessions. 

---

When they were a few years younger, eleven or twelve, Sam came for her first lesson. Layla knew her from school--knew her look, anyhow, knew her mannerisms, the way she twisted strands of her gently curled hair in circles around her ears when she was nervous, or idly thoughtful. How she stood, slightly pigeon toed, often with one leg pivoting on the ball of a foot, subtly twisting back and forth to some silent rythm. Layla knew her from a distance, and often mimicked her motions and patterns of speech in the lunchroom or out on the playfield. She did this to others as well, and earned herself some antipathetic relations, which didn't phase her one bit. Indeed, she didn't really register that distance that others imposed upon her. 

She didn't understand how other kids could see things differently. Not in a sense that she tried to come to terms with something just outside of her day-to-day ken, but in that she actually could not imagine another perspective living inside another being. She percieved a thing in one particular way, and all others percieving that thing would share her particular understanding. There was no room for the subjective. All of reality was objective. Her own view or understanding was itself the universal nature of reality.

Layla couldn't be said to have no conception of the other children as individuals. She understood them as people, but as people who saw as she saw, whose conclusions and perceptions would naturally be as hers. And as such, they had little to offer her. She didn't comprehend a practical value in their companionship, and their disdain was beyond impractical, it was a shallow illusion at best.

This didn't prevent her from having favorites, or desiring some form of companionship, though she was never sure herself if she was only going through the motions, as it were, acting out the social contract in some instinctive, subconscious manner. Driven more by beauty and asthetic pleasure then by any idea of character or companionship. She wanted a friend. At least one. And Sam was the most beautiful ... She wanted Sam as her friend.

So when Sam came for her first lesson with Mr. Kryczyk, Layla took the opportunity to enter into the study with them. She followed her father and his student into the study, walking behind her father, mimicking him behind his back, moving just like her father, but exaggerated and ludicrous. She made Sam giggle. Walter turned around, and when he saw what his daughter was doing, he became furious and sent her from the study. Upstairs, to her room, he sent her, and she went. She crept down again forty minutes later, when the stumbling, but somehow charming exercises came to a stop. But this time she didn't go into the room. She stayed out in the hall, and made her strange mocking dance where Sam could see, but her father could not. 

Sam tried not to giggle, but eventually failed, and Mr. Kryczyk caught on. His face turned bright red and he shouted at Layla, sending her back upstairs to her room. To stay there until called upon.

Why, she asked, and was told, We will discuss it later.

Of course, she didn't want to discuss it later, and had a feeling that there was little more reason for the banishment to the oubliette than I told you so. She was perfectly confident of her abilities of discourse and knew she could easily dismiss such a red-faced reasoning. There clearly was no practical purpose for her to stay up in her bedroom until summoned. 

But, Father was the authority, and must generally be obeyed. Postponing the trail until a later date was unpleasant but not unheard of.

Walter, for his own position, was not entirely displeased with his daughter. She had long ploughed through the world without forging any normal-seeming relationships. To see the lovely young girl in his study laugh and giggle and blush and cover her mouth with her delicate young hand in response to the teasings and clownings of his own progeny--even if those clownings were at his own expens--brought him pleasure. A surprising rush of pleased excitement passed through him, from his feet through his loins to the top of his head.

Layla went up the stairs, and Mr. Kryczyk closed and locked the study door. He continued his lesson with the young girl, Sam, and did not summon his daughter until the session had concluded.

By the time the session had concluded, certain phone calls had been made, and Sam was cleared to stay a little longer--as a guest instead of a client. They all came to the dining room, took their meal together, and Layla and Sam were allowed to sit near to eachother and encouraged to operate with certain playful, less-than-serious manners that were usually banned from the dining chamber. 

The ploy, if it could be called such, was a success, and the girls forged the first bonds of a friendship that was to endure the following years. Of course, to refer to the act of placing them together as a ploy that had the potential for both success and failure disallows the possibility that fate had a stronger hand to play, and that their emerging friendship was an inevitable result of the unfolding of the universe. It was enough, if this were the case, to put the girls together.

Mr. Kryczyk would let them time to play and such after his tutoring session concluded. Sam's family was well known to the Kryczyks, they were staunch supporters of the school, and had donated considerable sums of money to it over the years. Sam's father was some sort of biotech scientist. A geneticist or something of the like. Her mother the youngest daughter of a second-generation oil man. At a dinner party once, Mr. Kryczyk had famously called Sam's mother a socialist in the middle of a heated argument about work ethic, and the importance of instilling it in a child. Both families stuttered into slowly-building rounds of uproarious laughter as they realized he was trying to dismiss her perspective by referring to her as a socialite. 

"What do you know of real work? With your community functions and your cocktail in hand, you attend back yard parties and artistic demonstrations.... You've been nothing more than a ... a socialist for the whole of your life."

The families had long been acquainted, and this was precisely the right blend of hostility, banter, and unintentional semantic digression to transform their acquaintance into a solid friendship.

So, they would often do dinners together. Sam's parents would drive over and drop their daughter off for her instruction and go for a sunday drive, or take a trip to the club for a game of tennis or a cocktail, depending on their moods or the weather. Mrs. Kryczyk would often go with them, when they were off for cocktails. Not so much for the tennis. Though she had, on at least one occasion, sipped cocktails while watching the couple playing tennis, sitting happily on the sidelines with a notebook and a volume of poetry.

Layla was never invited on these outings, though Walter often questioned his wife about this, in front of the girl (much to her dismay).

Instead, she would retire upstairs to her chambers, where she was to study. Often she instead tried on different articles of clothing, trying to put together an outfit that would seem close enough to fashionable without crossing any of Layla's own personal lines. She couldn't wear tight pants or skirts, or narrow shoes, or stiff fabrics, no starch, no lace, no any number of things that her peers would be wearing out in the world. She would try on a number of different combinations and finally decide on something that was half-comfortable, and only just outside the realm of fashionably acceptable. Or she would fail to decide on such an ensemble, and instead pull on sweatpants and a t-shirt, wrap herself in a silk shawl--she could never resist the silk shawl, if she prayed, she would often have prayed for the temperature to drop low enough for her to wear the black silk shawl wrapped around her body without causing her to sweat.

She would try on clothes for a while, and then would sneak downstairs to sit outside the study door and let the music take her. After that forty-five minutes or so, Sam would be warmed up, and they'd be through working the strange mechanical patterns that were largely soul-less, though often beautiful in their own right. They'd be through with the excercises, and Sam would be on to the main piece. Whatever it was they would be working on. Layla would sit outside the study door, often placing herself on the marble steps, with an elbow placed behind her on a higher step, leaning on it so it would take her weight as she let the music build and swirl around her, washing away the mundane reality of their home, and filling it with something ineffable and mysterious instead. 

She'd listen outside the door until the music came to a stop. Until they stopped playing, whether Sam completed the movement succesfully, or the back-and forth of Walter and Sam wound down. Sometimes they worked on four-handed pieces or exercises. Harmonizing in rich and rhythmic ways that spun Layla's head around.

Somteimes the music was to strained and choppy for Layla to comfortably listen. In the first few sessions of a new and difficult piece, Layla would inevitably cut her listening time short. If her mother had not gone out with Sam's family, Layla would seek her out. Ma would inevitably be drinking in her study in such situations. Layla would tentatively knock on the door, for Mother always made a show about wanting privacy when she was in the library. To Layla, this seemed to be a reaction to father's position more than a self-determined decree. For though she discouraged interruption, and claimed she did not want to be bothered, she was certain to be well into her cups by the time Walter's session with his protegee began to wind down.

She'd be sitting there, with a bottle of wine near empty on the table in front of her, a tower above the castle wall of books of poetry and what not that lay stacked and open in different configurations across the wood surface.

She'd play her angry cards if approached in the wrong way, for she had convinced herself of a need for solitude that was quite at odds with her emotional needs. She felt a little excluded and vulnerable, though these feelings were masked by an irrational anger that was in turn masked by her passion for words and wine and the smell of leather mingling with the smell of paper. The passion was very real, and ran very deep, it was not as a simple false veneer on the deeper anger and the still deeper vulnerability. For these were built upon that poetic sensibility that was at the core of her being, that ran through the fiber of her being like the grain as it ran through the solid oak tabletop upon which her castle of wine and words was built. This fabricated castle of intention and lust and symbol and dream. Crafted unconsciously to stand in for something ... to serve as a haven ... a protection for some fragile element of self. This thing that tried to be another. The words that she pushed together, piling them page by page, brick by brick into a wall.

---

<!-- There is surely a relationship here between Nancy's Castle and the castle laid out upon the table. Both are fabrications assimilated by the unconscious in order to ... to do what? -->

<!-- They are, as we have said, the promise of haven, of protection, of a time long past, of mystical possibilities, of fairy tale and happy endings and of defense from the hordes of the unknown. -->

Layla learned how to approach her mother when she was shut away in her castle. The defenses were up, but the post was a lonely one. The trick was in the diminishing of the threat, in presenting herself as a supplicant more fragile and more vulnerable than Mother felt beneath her anger beneath her obsession with verse and the written word beneath her superior indifference.

So Layla knocked tentatively, so mother would hear and know she was there, outside the door, but she wouldn't knock so loud as to really disturb her, for that would have an effect leaning toward the opposite of that desired. Layla would knock gently upon the door, not expecting any response, for there would be none. Mother was not so weak nor so obvious as to withdraw from her position at the first sound of approach. 

Layla would knock gently, just so that Mother knew she was there. She would knock, and after a few breathless moments passed, she would slowly open the door, moving it upon the hinges as slowly and as steadily as she could, trying to maintain a delicate balance. She did not want to appear sneaky, or as if she were trying to skulk about the place, she wanted to appear perfectly confident and in control of herself and her situation, but she also needed to be as unobtrusive and as quiet as possible. She wanted her mother to know she was there, to know she was coming in, but she didn't want to disturb her with sudden noises or motions or general acts of insensitivity that would derail her mother's concentration or otherwise disturb her. 

With this balance carefully in place and carefully minded, Layla would walk into the library on softly padding feet. Not tiptoeing, of course, but walking slowly, quietly and confidently. She would study the towers, noting their number and volume. One tower, one bottle of wine, near full--Mother was liable to be melancholy and awash with dark humors. This was one of the most dangerous situations to approach. Two towers, one near empty and the other full was a better sign--mother was well enough into her cups, and liable to be joyful and passionate. Not as disjointed as she would soon get. If the second tower were well underway, or near empty, Mother was likely to be in an irrational and unstable state, the wine running hot through her.

Layla would assess the walls. How high were they? Stacks and stacks of books, or just a few? Was there a coherent theme, or a wild jumble? When Mother had gone to the shelves, had she a clear understanding of what she was in the mood for, did she have a clear desire, or were there a wide range of texts? If there were a wide range, what was the common thread that bound them together--for there almost certainly was a common thread binding them together. If there was a large selection, if the walls were looming high, it made the approach again more difficult. Mother was certainly craving something she couldn't quite put her finger on. She was driven by a desire or a fear that she didn't quite get. She was looking everywhere for something ... for something unclear ... for something she herself couldn't quite identify as the central theme of one particular work or collection, so she cast her nets wider, and brought to her table a wider selection.

If she were in such a state, if the walls were built high, the more books mother had open, the worse the situation was. Depending.... If there were books opened and scanned and tossed aside and others picked up and scanned and again tossed aside ... that was bad. Mother really needed something she wasn't finding. If she had many books opened, and their spines stretched, their pages marked with scraps of paper, with napkins or notecards or strips of ribbon or cloth or whatever, things were a little better, as far as Mother's mood, but she was less likely to accept a disturbance. To keep multiple threads going in the mind without losing the thought of this text and how it related to the thought in that text and to be able to correlate some sort of continuity of theme throughout her miniature fabricated castle took a great deal of concentration, and to disturb that concentration was a dangerous thing.

So layla looked at these factors as they were laid out on the table, and she made adjustments to her approach, calculating things out in her mind as she stepped quietly nearer and nearer to her mother's table. Another child might have developed an intuitive sense of the situation, and might have been able to react favorably to the circumstances before them by responding to the evidence displayed by some method of subconscious analysis. A gut feeling or intuitive understanding of Mother's moods. But that was not the way of Layla Kryczyk. She had never learned to rely on her unconscious intuitive faculties, if she even had them. She had to consciously tabulate each scrap of evidence presented to her, and to adjust a carefully formulated plan to favorably gain her mother's attention and engage her in conversation.

What were the books laid out? What pages were opened? Did Layla know any of the content, any of the subject matter? Layla had an incredible ability for recollection. She could recall extensive passages from many of the books that she had read, though she couldn't always relate those passages to the aspects of her own life, or to the passages of other books. This made those days--when Mother had many books out, cross-referencing different authors for thematic relationships or continuity of one form or another--very difficult for Layla. She could easily recall passages, but to abstract them and transpose them on another piece of work was difficult and frustrating for her. 

It was as if her conscious, analytical mind had grown powerful and vast at the expense of the functionality of her unconscious mind. Those associations that would occur to others in their sleep, or would come unbidden into the mind after hours or days or weeks or months of rumination, would never happen for Layla. Conclusions she drew, she drew with her own step-by-step analytical thinking. There were no midnight epiphanies for this girl. Every victory was won on the same battleground, and earned with the same tool.

So when she walked into her mother's library, she did it slowly, and with a practiced grace and confidence that reflected nothing within her, for there was very little she could feel within her. 

Her entire being was on a conscious, analytic level. She looked at the towers, she looked at the walls, she looked at her mother and tried to read her face--an activity which seldom came to any successful fruition. Layla could only recognize the most violent of emotions in facial expressions. Murderous rage and twisted pain of an unearthly degree, she could understand. Lust or longing of a world-altering strength, she could see. But the nuances of average emotional facial display were beyond her.

So she judged her mothers state of mind by the things that surrounded her. By the amount of wine she had drunk in relation to the amount of wine she intended to drink--discerned by the state of the bottles, the towers in the castle wall. If a tower had fallen, Mother would be in an advanced state of inebriation, Layla concluded, and would be succeptible to only overt and ridiculous actions. That is to say, subtleties would be lost on her and she would be quick to take offense. Layla would have to proceed with both great confidence and great caution, choosing a course of action based upon the other factors perceived, and embracing it wholeheartedly, displaying no hint of timidity or discomfort.

Sometimes she would initiate the confrontation with a request. "Mother, may I look at your copy of such-and-such? I've got these lines running through my head, and I want to make sure I've got it right." This type of approach worked best when Mother had many books before her, opened and bookmarked, perhaps with some notes scribbled in a pad, when the castle walls were in the midst of construction / deconstruction, when Mother was building them up in some places, putting books aside, folding them shut and placing them into gaps of the wall that had been blasted open by the siege engine of ideas, and when such-and-such was somehow thematically related to the puzzle upon which Mother worked.

The precise nature of that relationship and the way in which Layla approached it was a process subject to variation. Should Mother be focused specifically on the one book in front of her, and ignoring completely those around her, Layla could often request one of those, reciting a line or two of its verse to sweeten the deal. If Mother was frustrated with what she had before her, and was about to toss it aside or build it back into the book-wall, Layla could occasionally request the book right from before her mother's eyes--she had tried this on three seperate occasions, and it worked once. She preferred other courses of action, for reading her mother's attitude by her facial expression alone was difficult for Layla. She could never really tell how Mother was reacting to the page right in front of her face, it was only through the contextual relationship of her surroundings that any of Mother's internal workings became clear.

The best solution to this particular approach was when such-and-such was a book not on the table at all, but still on the shelf, though it held some relation to the books Mother worked with.

The kinds of relationships Layla saw between the books were quite different from those her mother saw. While Mother saw books with similar metaphorical content, Layla saw books published by the same houses, written by contemporaries, or connected by a particular scholar. This was easy when Mother had various analyses on the table. Layla could then request source material the authors of said criticism had criticised in other volumes. Volumes not present on the table at that particular moment. This worked wonderfully, because those other scholars often saw metaphorical or abstract connections that Layla herself could never see. But following the lines of scholarship and the progress of other thinkers, she could bring those same relationships to her mother's attention when Mother herself was unable to make that connection.

This was the mother-daughter bonding time that never had a chance to blossom before. It was not easy and natural, necessarily, but Layla had an opportunity to enter into conversation with her mother, and impress her with her near-photographic memory for passages of verse or phrase from the different books. She seldom had any real understanding of what she remembered and could quote ...  for her it was like recalling a painting or a particular texture or feeling. Quite pleasant, or at least a sensually rich experience, but rather short on logical insight.

But it worked, however she pulled together her attack plan. Sure, there were occasions when Mother reacted badly to the interruption, and sent Layla scurrying for cover with a thrown book or hurled curses. But Layla improved her technique of approach, and her mother, Laylya thought, began to enjoy these visits from her daughter more and more. As time went on, she became more and more amenable to interruption. She never gave up the facade completely, of course. She always claimed to prefer privacy to discourse with her daughter. When she wanted to study, she wanted to study, that is. But she took pleasure, and a certain pride, in her daughters abilities. When Layla came upstairs, she was aglo from Sam's playing, her vision still swiming, poetry bouncing off the walls of her skull. Of course, Mother had no way of knowing where Sam had come from. She still held the belief that her daughter couldn't listen to music without having intense negative reactions, often so intense as to be violent.

But during Mr. Kryczyk's sessions, Mother either took leave of the house, to go on some outing with Sam's family (or some other tutee's family--there were other families whose company she enjoyed even more than that of Sam's family), or took to her Library, to work with her books, studying writing, compiling data, pursuing lines of reason. She worked on a project, toward some goal. A poetic criticism, collating histories and movements romantic and modern and the like. Layla was particularly interested in, taken with, the criticism surrounding Arthurian texts. She loved the stories as presented in the essays. She loved the idea of Eliot's Wasteland, but though she could recite much of it from memory, the only meaning she gleaned from it was regarding which parts of the text corresponded to which bits of criticism. 

She had this phenomenal split in her. Poetry came unbidden to her lips. She involuntarily chewed out the shapes of words and phrases from poetic traditions, yet, she couldn't abide abstraction. Metaphor only made sense to her when explicitly analyzed and expounded by one scholar or another.

A favorite trick of Mothers. A trick of Layla's, favorite of Mother's. Layla provided tremendous amusement to her mother by taking a book of criticism, and reading a passage, and reciting the passage of original text to which the criticism pertained, just off the top of her head. 

After her mother saw this done once or twice, she would flip through the critical text at her fingertips and make a near-random selection, and read from that.

Layla would, in response, begin to recite the source material. The prose or verse to which the paragraph pertained.

Mother had great fun with this, to her it was a marvelous game, and for a long while, it was a welcome distraction to her frustrated studies. She had never really felt pride for her daughter, but of course, the instinct and drive lay within her. She wanted to feel that pride, was biologically compelled to feel it, to feel an affinity with her daughter, but long had that affinity been absent. 

The discovery was a rennaisance. Deborah now had context, common ground. She had a perspective from which to understand her daughters peculiar behavior, her oddities of habit and intelligence. She felt for the first time in her strange life a familial bond with her strange child. 

Soon, she began to look forward to those visits with her daughter. She eventually began to decline more and more invitations to social excursions as they were inevitably offered by the parents of Mr. Kryczyk's tutees. She would stay in, and expectantly await her daughter's arrival into her inner sanctum. Watching with amusement the ploys her daughter would work on her, the techniques with which Layla removed her boundaries, and encouraged her to welcome her daughter into her space.

At first, their interactions were a distraction from the work that Mother plied herself too, but soon, as she more and more saw the power and potential of her daughter's strange mnemonic abilities, she began to utilize her in the work itself.

She hit a frustrating wall when she realized that her daughter was unable to corrolate new criticism with existing materials. Meaning, if Mother wrote up an argument, referring to a passage she couldn't quite remember, but knew existed, she hoped Layla could recite the passage to which she referred, just by hearing Mother's analytical creation. She hoped Layla would be able to do for her new prose what she did for the critics. It would save so much time, Mother thought. Layla could give me the quotes I need to support my argument, without my having to dig through all these books. I'll read to her, and she'll recall the verse to which I allude, and spit it to me verbatim. With publishing information and page numbers and all. For Layla could do such things. She remembered all of those details.

But not when the criticism was unfamiliar. She didn't get all the connections in that way. But when she heard a passage, she could trace it to all the criticisms that were attached to it, to all the references in other works.

She could trace a web of reference more quickly than otherwise possible.

Reading a passage from the Metamorphoses, Mother would ask "What does Bullfinch say?"

"He tells the story...."

"Yes. Of course he tells the story. Who else works with the theme? To whom does Bullfinch direct our attention?"

"Milton. In both Comus and Paradise Lost. To Goldsmith, and to Cowper."

"Cowper? What's Cowper's piece?"

"As Bullfinch has it:

> **ON AN UGLY FELLOW**

> Beware, my friend, of crystal brook   
> Or fountain, lest that hideous hook,   
> Thy nose, thou chance to see;   
> Narcissus' fate would then be thine,   
> And self-detested thou would'st pine,   
> As self-enamored he."   

"Okay ... that's all very fine. Who else?"   

"Ehritch Neyuwman--"

"Who?"

"Neyuwman. Origins and history of consciousness."

"Okay. Erich Neumann. What does he have to say about it?"

> "...Chronologically, however, nymphs--that is, partieal aspects of the archetype--can appear just as easily before the historical worship of the mother archetype as afterwards. Structurally they remain partial aspects of the archetype and are psychic fragmentations of it, even though the historian can point to a nymph cult that is antecedent to the cult of the Great Mother. In the collective unconscious all archetypes are contemporaneous and exist side by side. Only with the development of consciousness do we come to a graduated hierarchy within the collective unconscious itself. (See Part II.) 

> Narcissus, seduced by his own reflection, is really a victim of Aphrodite, the Great Mother. He succumbs to her fatal law. His ego system is overpowered by the terrible instinctive force of love over which she presides. The fact that she borrows his reflection to effect the seduction only makes her the more treacherous."[^fn3]

[^fn3]: Erich Neumann. p.90


And from there, they would go on to Jung, and The Structure and Dynamics of the Psyche. A little on this line would naturally exhaust them, and they would return to more literary avenues.

But they developed a thing. A pattern. A relationship. A comfortable recurring exchange that used their oddities and eccentricities for some purpose. They built off of eachother with their strange, complimentary dynamic.

---
@@
Bit by bit, their routine settled in. All of them, as a family, one could suppose. This was one of the most reliable and regular aspects of family life. They no longer ate all meals together, though there was a time when Mother insisted on the evening meal being taken together, round the dining room table. Though when they had company, for instance, after Sam's piano lesson, she would usually stay for dinner, and on such occasions, Norma would cook up a meal to be served all at once, rather than the evening buffet service she normally provided in the kitchen, serving up plates for those who came when they were hungry. Walter would take his plate, on such occasions, back to his studio, Janice, to her library. Layla often ate at a little table in the corner of the kitchen, where she could watch Norma at work, moving about with purpose and clarity. There were systems to the kitchen. This went here, that went there. Coffee was to be prepared in a certain way. Order and purpose and organization to everything, regardless of emotion or expression. It didn't matter what type of mood Mr. Kryczyk was in when he asked for his cup of coffee. Norma made it the same way each time, regardless.

The room was full of little rituals. The washing of dishes, the polishing of silverware, the folding of napkins. Norma made pasta from scratch, kneading flour into a smooth yellow putty. She rolled it out into long flat sheets, sprinkled with flour.

Layla loved the flour. Magic white dust, it got everywhere. She loved the process of cleaning up after Norma cut the dough into fine little strips, after cranking them through a stainless steel press over and over, each time narrowing the gap so the sheets came through thinner and thinner. She asked a lot of questions. Norma got frustrated occasionally, when she thought something was obvious, when she thought the answer to Layla's question was self-evident. But she never lashed out in harshness, or told Layla to shut up or stop asking questions. She never sent Layla from the kitchen. Eventually she began to understand Layla's method of understanding. She made no leaps or assumptions, took  nothing for granted. When a thing was done, she wanted to know why it was done, how it was done, was there a better way to do it?

"Why do you put that there?" she would ask, referring to something that Norma had no real answer for, to something Norma did out of habit, without giving much thought to. "Why don't you put it over there instead?" Layla asked.

At first, these questions offended Norma. She took them as overt passive-aggressive criticisms. "That's just the way it's done," she said, or something of the like.

After a time, she came to understand that these questions were not intended to point out flaws that Layla percieved. They were not meant as criticisms, but as genuine attempts to learn the purposes and methods of each step in a process. Layla didn't weigh any step as more important than any other. To her, each move was as important as the one before and the one after.

When Norma had learned to make pasta, she picked out several key things, focused in on those, and strung the rest together more-or-less instinctively, based on those few key points.

Flour to water to egg ratio. Consistency of the dough--to stop the kneading and proceed to the rolling pin when the dough was elastic and stretchy and wouldn't break when she took the ball in both hands and pulled it apart to her arms' length.

To Layla, the precise amount of flour to sprinkle on the surface of the butcher's block wooden counter between a precise number of kneadings and pressings and stretchings was as important as the initial ratios.

When Norma came to realize that some of these questions needed an answer as simple as "There's no particular reason for that. It's just the way I have learned to do it." Sometimes that was good enough. Layla wasn't trying to suggest that there was a better way, that there was something inferior about a certain step, she just couldn't concieve of a process being developed without equal attention and thought and planning dedicated to each and every little movement, each step.

When Norma answered such questions, it also helped Layla come to terms with the existence of different perspectives. If only a little. She was confounded at first that something could be done without a clear reason.

"This bit isn't really so important," Norma might say. "It's the next part that is the real key." 

Layla didn't quite get the differentiation, but came to accept it. In some cases, Norma even came to adopt a more 'logical' step in place of a thing she had done without thinking about it. She didn't really like the idea that her process would become more mechanical, but she enjoyed Layla's company, as odd as it was. Every time they found common ground, Norma felt as if they had achieved something special. Surmounted some obstical.

And it was all compromise, anyhow. Norma took a more analytical approach to some of her pasta-making techniques, and Layla allowed for some steps to be taken without more reason than "that's the way my mother taught me, and so that's the way I do it."

So, the family didn't have a daily practice of uniting in any particular task or event.

Earlier on, they tried that kind of thing, but as Layla grew up, her parents grew apart, she sometimes thought. 

This feeling of separation was not always present, for her parents,  Walter and Janice Kryczyk, often spent evenings together, they would go out and dine, the two of them. They would lock themselves into Walter's studio, or Janice's library, and talk for hours. Planning futures, discussing financial affairs, arguing, or doing those more intimate things that couples sometimes did. 

Layla didn't think of them as particularly in love. In fact, it only ever occured to think about the subject at all after a conversation with Sam. 

Sam had asked about her parents' relationship, if they were in love, if they ever had sex. That type of thing. Layla was taken aback.

"Do your parents love each other?" Sam asked after one particularly long lesson.

Layla had been disappointed, at first, because there hadn't been all that much music coming from the studio after the first round of warm-up exercises. They had played into a piece, but the voicing seemed distracted, and never really took off. Layla didn't get the intensity of vision and transportation that Sam's playing usually brought.

Layla had gone up to her mother's library a little earlier than she might have, otherwise. She had to struggle a little harder to convince Mother to let her in and listen amicably. But they got it going. The experience had left Layla somewhat flushed and exhausted. They had talked about the historical evolution of poetic drama, from the monologue to the chorus and into the modern forms....

"Of course they love each other," Layla answered, a little bit confused by the question. "They are married."

"Plenty of people are married that aren't in love," Sam said. "It happens all the time."

Layla didn't understand. "I don't understand," she said. "When people are in love, they get married. My parents are married, so they are in love."

"You don't have to be in love to be married, silly. In, like, India, people get married to strangers. Their parents just tell them who they are going to marry, and they have to do it."

"But they get married, and then they fall in love, right?"

"Sometimes, sure. But that's not the point. People can be in love, but then it changes. They might meet someone they love even more."

"Do you think my parents aren't in love any more?"

"I don't know. I'm asking you. You see them every day. Are they in love with each other?"

"Are they in love?"

"Yes. Are they in love?"

"They are married."

"I know they are married, but are they in love?"

"Well, being married doesn't mean they are in love, how can I tell?"

"Do they have sex?"

"Sex?"

"Oh my god. You know what sex is, right?"

"Yes. You do it when you're married. In love."

"So do you're parents do it?"

"I don't know."

"I think I might be in love," Sam said.

"Do you have sex?"

"... maybe."

"Oh ... whith whom?"

"Whom? Listen to you. You're so propper. Look. I want you to do me a favor."

"... okay."

"Find out if your parents love each other."

"Well, how would I do that?"

"Lets see. Watch them, and for starters, see if you can if they have sex, and how often they do it. You should write that down, and keep track of it. What else do people do when they are in love?"

"I don't know. They go places together?"

"Sure. Write that down too. Every time they go somewhere together. And when they talk, or listen to music together. Your mom is like a poet, or something, right? People in love write poems for each other. Does your mom write poems for your dad?"

"I don't know."

"Of course you don't know. But you should find out. Find out these things. Do they listen to music together, play the piano together, go out for romantic walks ... and most of all, do they do it?"

* * *

Through much of this, we are establishing that a certain pattern has developed in the Kryczyk household. Layla has decided that if she must have a friend - as her parents tell her, so at some earlier point in time, her mother, or her father, or likely both, have told her that she needs to socialize. To have friends. This was a big part of their decision to send her out into school. She was home-schooled for most of her earliest years, and then they sent her to the Convent of the Sacred Heart. They told her she needed to have friends. Norma followed suit, and told her on one occasion that she needed to have some friends, like a normal littlle girl. The idea really took hold when Manny told her.

When he pulled her out of the fountain that time she was covered in slimy flour-paste from the fake cast Norma had wrapped her leg into. Manny took her into his little house, dried her off, gave her some of his own clean, dry clothes, and told her, "Girl, you need to have a friend."

"Stop saying that. Everyone is always saying that I need to have friends. I don't."

"Well, you should think about it. Maybe try it out. Just one friend. You don't have to go around and make friends with everyone out there. You don't have to be the most popular girl in school or anything. Just pick one girl to be your friend. Try it out."

"If I have to, I pick Sam."

<!-- TODO: during rewrite - introducing Layla, Layla's family et al, each of the family members in turn should tell her about how unusual she is. perhaps some focusing on more positive aspects than others? -->

<!-- Manny would be positive, telling her how pretty she is, how oddly clever. -->

<!-- Mother would be more negative perhaps, though she is clearly in awe of Layla's ability to use words and to 'perform.' -->

<!-- I don't think father would have much positive to say. Likely he would focus on her skulking about. Sneaking in the shadows. -->

<!-- Norma would have something to say about her stubbornness, her rules-lawyering. -->

<!-- They all conclude by telling her she would benefit from the friendship of her peers. --> 


---

So the pattern in the household, the routine, as it developed into: Sam would come over for her piano lesson. Walter took her into the studio, closed the door and they began to work on exercises. Layla went up to her room, and tried to pick out some clothes to wear for dinner. Something she would be comfortable in, but that wouldn't be too far outside the boundaries of reasonable fashion. Janice went to her library to study, closing herself in with a bottle or two of wine and her books.

At about this point, Layla snuck back downstairs to sit outside the studio door, and listen to the music that transported her out of her body--she had synesthesic visions and incredibly strong emotional responses to Sam's playing. Layla didn't want anyone to see her listening to this music, for she didn't want to offend her father. She had equally strong reactions to her father's playing, but of a more negative sort. When Walter played, Layla suffered from nightmarish visions and fits of panic. So far as Layla's parents knew, her response to music was more-or-less negative across the board. So Layla waited until the house had settled, Sam's preliminary warm-up exercises were over--which were rather less inspiring anyhow--before she tiptoed downstairs to listen by the studio door. After the culmination of whatever main piece Walter and Sam were working on, Sam went back up the stairs and into her mother's library, where she made a show of interrupting her. They began to work together, Layla actually using some of her eccentric habits of memory to assist her mother's work.

Norma was in the kitchen, preparing dinner throughout all of this. Once Sam arrived and went into the studio, Norma began preparing the dinner all would share once the session came to an end. Of course, on some occasions, Norma planned a more labor-intensive meal that took all-day preparations.

Once the lesson concluded, and Layla's conversations with her mother concluded, they all met down in the dining room, after a little milling about. Sam's parents arrived, handed a bottle of wine over to Norma. They all socialized for a bit, before Norma rang a bell, and the families sat down to dinner.

Of course, Sam was not the only Student that Mr. Kryczyk taught in the house, but none of the other students developed such a relationship with the Kryczyks. This may very well have been the result of Layla's decision to make Sam her friend. She didn't need any others, and was cold and disdainful in her treatment of the other girls that came through. Regardless of Layla's treatment of the others, there never developed the same sense of routine around the other students' visits. The schedules were too varied. They didn't invite them to stay for dinner. Often Janice would go out with friends on the occasions of other students' appointments.

Suffice it to say, that other students did come through the house, but these other students did not effect the whole houshold in the way that Sam's appointments did. Walter's schedule reflected his other students, but the family schedule did not.

But each Thursday evening, when Sam came for her lesson, the whole house fell into routine and habit.

Unfortunately, it was not a routine that would last, and soon engough, the whole affair would come spiraling down in a big, burning, out of control mess.

---

Lets leave that behind for a moment, that whole situation, and get back to Nancy. It's been a while since we've left him. And he isn't quite the person he seemed. Or, he is, but there is either more or less to his situation, depending on where we look at it from.

Nancy had been moving from town to town, city to city, for quite some time. Working dead-end jobs, following fruit harvests across the north, where the population of farm laborers still had a healthy smattering of irresponsible white folk. Not to place any judgement on the race of laborers, Nancy thought, but he knew that in the southern areas, farm laborers were of a primarily South-of-the border stock. A few Hondurans made it up as far north as he, and Nancy knew that another one of these guys could take his job in the blink of an eye. Hugo was Honduran. He would work until his knees swelled to the size of grapefruits. At the end of the day, he would tape packs of ice to them, drink a beer or two, eat as much as he could before putting himself to bed, so that he might rise before dawn and begin the whole cycle over again. He made five times as much money at the piece work as did any of the caucasians. He spent less than a fifth what Nancy himself spent. 

Nancy could set himself working. He could get on a pace that would earn him top dollar, as far as the white workers were concerned--though the best white laborer on any given day would hover somewhere just over half of Hugo's earnings.

Nancy couldn't keep that pace every day. When his knees hurt, he stayed off them. He sat in the shade below the fruit trees, drinking beer in the middle of the day, if there happened to be any fruit trees around. Sure, he made sure to haul his share, but his share ... he didn't set the bar too high.

Come payday, Nancy and pope would hit the nearest town, wherever that might be. They'd score a bag of whatever they could find, camp out by the river on the outskirts of town, and close down the titty bar. Now, this wasn't really at the expense of a normal work day. The farms Nancy worked for were small farms. He and Pope would jump on a crew, and they'd clean out whatever field they were working on in a week or two, then go on to see what other crops were ready. After the four or five day bender. They'd hit the next job pretty much broke and wiped out. But they were able-bodied, and could work when they needed to. Most of these farms appreciated the extra help, even if the help was given by such fuck-ups as Nancy and Pope. It wasn't like they were getting an hourly wage. They got paid for what they did. On occasion, they got into trouble with a foreman, mostly for eroding the resolve of other workers, who had been responsible until the two vagabonds showed up in camp. They'd come in at the end of each day with a flat of beer--they were never stingy with it. The beer was to be drunk, to encourage camaraderie. It was offered around, and of course people accepted. They'd start up card games, and when cash was short, they'd keep a book. When the crop was pulled in and the hands paid out, they'd collect. Nancy and Pope would loose plenty of hands, but they always seemed to come up in the long haul. Sometimes they made as much money from the gambling as from the honest work. 

They knew that it was a different world further south. Down there, the farms were filled with Hugos who worked their knees into mush, their backs into twisted putty, without thought for anything but to provide for their families. They were there to work, to pull as much money as they could from a system that didn't want them, officially. Nancy and Pope were of a different breed entirely. They wanted only to skate by til their next score. They wanted to explore the bars in each of these small towns. They wanted to drink beer in the sun, smell the summer as it washed over them in hot waves. They wanted to get high by lakes of cool glacial water, and fuck country girls.

Now, farm work, fruit harvests and all, were really a rather small part of their living. There was a small circuit they could run. They'd pick cherries. Move from town to town, following the harvest from south to north, hitchiking from town to town. When the cherries were done, they'd head back down as far south as they dared and pick peaches. Stone fruit. They'd follow that harvest north, and come back for apples. It was a couple of months at best, but those couple of months were something. Hot summer days stretched out to the horizon, each moment lasting an eternity. A golden black-out haze, punctuated by certain moments of clarity and wakefulness. Nancy'd come to with a beer in his hand, floating on some little inflatable pad in a lake too small for sailing, the sun beating down on his now chestnut-brown skin, watching some hippies swimming naked and calling his name.

He'd come to walking by the side of some winding highway road, his thumb extended, and a strange aching pain in his chest. A pain that sent fiery daggers through his body and down to his toes if he tried to draw a breath too deep. When a car stopped, he hopped in, still unsure of his destination. But signs along the road refreshed his memory, and it came to him. Enough of it came to him to get him where he needed to go. He remembered most of the important stuff.

It wasn't all farm work, but the life was generally the same. Late summer, harvest time, was the easiest living though. Days were long and hot, and they could sleep wherever, and wherever they were, there were girls who wanted to party. All in all, a good living, thought Nancy.

Even so, Nancy was only trying to avoid the inevitable himself. Turned away from the darker truths of self and such, he tried to lose himself in his own haze. To lose himself in a labyrinth of his own creation. In the labyrinthine mess of easy living and obvious solutions.

He clearly avoided looking into his motivations, into certain things that flitted about in the dark corners of his thoughts, of his mind. He preferred to medicate himself. To avail himself of the sensual pleasures presented to him.

He took this easy way, this path of highest sensual pleasure, least introspection and least resistance. In a large way, he did this to escape from the path set for him by his family, by his mother.

* * *

<!-- TODO: TENSE! this is sort of a note-taking session that must ultimately be weeded out of the text or converted or whatever. But: this is in present tense, and nothing else is, to my conscious intention as of yet. Though there might be a place for it. The present tense could be reserved for the thought processes and internal musings of Nancy or Layla or both, or just Nancy, for he is the one suffering from a denial of internal process. His battle is to shut the voices down. -->

Of course, all the drugs and booze and women he can stuff himself with can't alleviate the twitterings within him, can't chase away all of his nightmares--he has many. In his most lucid moments, sitting in a little boat out on the water in the moonlight, the girl he's with swimming beneath him, around him, he suffers flashes, forboding shadows of what has been or is yet to be. He doesn't know which. He resists the images. He doesn't want to know where he has been or where he is going. He prefers to lose himself in the blackout, to suffer only those occasional waking moments, when he comes to, when he realizes that he is in the midst of something beyond his understanding. There was an understanding, a trajectory and a purpose which is now only a memory. An empty place where something once stood. There is something going on here, he thought,

I knew what I was doing a moment ago. A hint of that purpose remains, but now ...  and so he worked in the moment, for that present moment, reacting to his immediate surroundings. Reading peoples faces, basing his actions on only what is, shutting out all thought of what will be, what has been.

And on either side, tragedy. Behind Nancy, death. Death ahead of him. He too walks in death. His father, a suicide, survived by his wife. An empire. Aristocracy, business. A powerful family, and Nancy's father driven to take his life by the pressures of business, by legal entanglements. Offered up to the dogs by his own wife. A rival corporation, a rival entity brought down through treachery and subterfuge. Unethical battle fought outside the lines of law or decency. Long and hard-fought. Their lives on the line, the family on the line, Nancy's father risked everything, and near won. Sexual scandal. His wife turned on him. Offered him up to the courts, to his enemies. Drove him to put the barrel of a hunting rifle in his mouth and paint the ceiling of his office in impressionistic patterns of pink and red and grey.

Nancy's sister. Nancy's sister blamed their mother. Of course, no courts held the mother accountable.

Was it a legal battle with the rival entity that drove him to chew the metal tube, or something else? Something simpler.

The scandal. Accused of abusing his only daughter? Daughter, at eighteen or nineteen years old, testifying against him. Telling the truth? Lying under oath? Coached by mother, promised the world. For the best, for all of us. Father will have a heart attack. He won't live another five years. The doctors say. Take him out of the drivers seat. Out of power and out of the public eye. For his good. And troubled girl that she was. Father never loved her, never would take care of her. Was it right, for her to struggle so? She deserved her share of the family fortunes. Mother would give her share, she would never need work again. You want those addictions to come public? Or do you want to live in peace, all things taken care of? Money for all your needs. Your own home. Never need to work for yourself. Why should you? Those shameful things you've done with all those men. Those older men. Business partners.

"But mother ... you told me to do whatever they...."

"You think your father didn't know? You think he didn't want you to please those men?"

"But he never.... you ... I did all that for you."

"It's an easy thing. Just say what I tell you to say. You'll bring father home. He won't have to work anymore. No more risk of heart attack."

"But it will ruin him."

"No. It will save him. I can run the business better than he ever could. Who do you think is really in charge here, anyhow? You think he could have done this? You think he could have given you any of this? No. No no no. This is from me. Because I love you. You can't see what's best for this family. I can. I always have. I hold this family together, keep the roof over your heads. Keep you safe and comfortable. Do you want your father to know about the men? About the things you've done with his business partners? Do you want him to know about the drugs? The abortion?"

"Mother!"

"Just do as I tell you. Say as I tell you to say. It's for the best. I promise you. Look at this. This house is yours. You see that? The beach. The terraced gardens. Look at the dining room. Look at the view through those windows. I'll take you there tomorrow. You can see for yourself. It's yours. I'll handle everything. I'll get you the doctor you need, for your ... prescriptions. Anything you need. Just ask me."

"But...."

"If you don't. Your father will die. His doctor says he's bound to have another heart attack. A fatal heart attack within the next five years. He needs to stop. Imagine what would happen to him when I tell him about all the things you've done. About the evil, sinful behaviors of his little angel. He'll die on the spot. And you'll be to blame. And if you don't care about your father's life. If you don't care whether he lives or dies, think about yourself. You'll be destitute either way. I'll ruin you. You'll have nothing. Your precious little pills ... your ... gentleman callers. You'll be out on the street with all the other whores. I'll make sure of that. But sweetheart, it won't come to that. Just say what I tell you to say. Do as I tell you, and everything will be just fine."

"But ... it'll ruin him. If I say that he ... touched me ... like that."

"It won't ruin him. Look. In the end, you'll come clean. I've got a doctor waiting. You'll have a mental breakdown. You've made it all up. We'll wait just long enough ... just to make sure your father is safe. I'll take over the company, and he'll come home. You had a nervous fit, is all. A breakdown. Delusional, of course you made it up. He'll forgive you. And you'll have your own home. All of these little pills you can swallow..."

---

But it didn't work out that way. Father bit the bullet. The doctor was waiting to declare her unwell, that much was true. But they had her committed, and that was that. Anything she might say would be attributed to her mental infirmity.

When her father shot himself, Nancy's sister, seeing the direction in which things had turned, smuggled Nancy away. She put him on a Greyhound bus to stay with some friends of hers, Marijuana farmers in Northern California. Nancy was fifteen or sixteen at the time, and a little bit scared. But he loved and trusted his sister tremendously, and went where she bid him. 

The farmers put him to work. All in all it wasn't a bad life. They got him on a home-schooling program, introduced him to poetry and music and drugs and alcohol. 

He corresponded with his sister, but with each passing letter, she frightened him more, telling him unbelievable, terrible things about his own mother, about things that Mother did. How Mother was responsible for Father's death. Nancy didn't want to believe it, but had little choice, for he trusted and idolizedd his big sister.

Then, of course, as happens in this tale, events repeat themselves, and come back with different varriation. The marijuana farmers were a couple, husband and wife. The wife had an affair. She fell in love with a courier. A trafficker. The wife conspired with her paramour. They robbed the husband of cash and crop and headed for the hills. Unfortunately, a fight broke out. The husband wasn't where he should have been, or he didn't give in as easily as his wife predicted he should have. Either way. He was killed. Though guns were waved, the trafficker didn't shoot. He liked the guy, and didn't want him dead. But when he came at him, the trafficker took a swing at the husband, caught him in the jaw with a little wooden bat. A tire-beater he used on his truck. Knocked the husband out and down. They were in the guy's art studio, and he fell back and landed on this half-carved piece of jade. The husband was going to make it into a sphinx. It was well enough along that you could see this. The front side was sort of rough-hewn out of it, but the back section, the haunches and all, were jagged and sharp. The husband hit the sharp chunk of jade and it caught him right behind the ear. Split his head right open. The wife an the trafficker made their escape while the husband bled out on his studio floor.

Nancy didn't know what was happening. He was out in the plants, making out with this girl. This local girl was one of the folk they hired to help them out around harvest time. Harvest was complete now, but she still came by. Mostly to get stoned and Fuck Nancy out under the stars.

Nancy came running when he heard the shouting and the screeching of tires as wife and lover made their escape down the dirt drive.

He told the girl to head home--she had walked up some old trails to get there, no car or anything.

Nancy ran in, calling out, getting scared when no one answered him. He found the husband in pool of blood, and flames rising around. He didn't want to leave the guy, and went to try to pull him from the building before it went up in flames. He tried to support the husband's neck, as the angle in which he lay looked a little awkward. He got his hand around there, and he could feel it was just all mush, coming apart in his hands. The husband was well beyond help. Nancy wiped the blood and brains from his hands and took off. He grabbed his backpack, his stash and his wad of cash. He headed down the back trails and let the place burn down. He didn't know what else to do. It was a week before his 18th birthday.

* * *

So, Nancy took to the road, moving in and out of little towns and cities and the like. He assumed a new name. Something odd. Unusual for a young man, but that had some personal meaning for him. Perhaps it was his sister's name, his own might have been Oscar. Nancy himself wasn't sure of any of this. He had vague recollections of names and family members and such, but when those memories began to surface, a whole torrent of other, more frightening, terrible memories and thoughts surfaced with them. He built up the sparkling Christmas Castle around them. Piece by piece created the walls and towers that enclosed the painful, dark memories.

Try as he might to contain them within the walls of the frosted blue structure of plywood, two by fours, plaster, paint and glitter, dark goblins crept out. Dressed as elves, as Santa's little helping elves, they crept out of the castle, climbing out of the tiny windows, scaling down the frosted towers with uncanny, jerky movements, like spiders ... like desert ants overflowing their strange-mounded home ... like termites?

<!-- TODO: what are those desert insects with the towering sand and spit cities? The goblins creeping out of the Christmas Castle like termites from their city. Or whatever these insects are. -->

In his dreams, these things come for him. Thieves coming to rob him in the night, to smash his head upon a jade sculpture and let him bleed out on the floor. Police, looking to question him, looking to arrest him. Surely Nancy was the only suspect in that murder. The murder of the drug-farmer that treated him like a son.

He ran in the night like a criminal, and surely he was hunted like one. He heard hounds braying in the night. Heard them for weeks, as he slept in the dirt by the side of some road. As he slept on patches of grass. Beneath some tree. Beside some creek.

He carried a few letters from his sister with him.

They continued to correspond after she Smuggled Nancy away. His mother had reported him missing. She remarried within the first year of Father's death. They thought Nancy dead. Investigators looked for him, but had no leads. Nancy, a young man, a boy, had no friends to call upon in far-away places, no lovers, no relatives heard from him. They gave up the chase without too much aplomb. Everyone thought him dead. Sister didn't let on. They did everything but have a funeral.

So Nancy fled into the night, into the dawn, into the sunset, into the dust and the rain and the snow and dirt and urban sprawl and fiery sunrise.

He had no more correspondence with his sister. She eventually heard about the fire, as acquaintances and friends from her past visited her from time to time. She waited for a letter or some sign from Nancy, but received none. She waited a bit more before finally accepting the possibility of her younger brother's death. But accept it she did. So soon enough, he wandered the world, fleeing from his demons, and none living, none who had loved him or known him, knew of his existence at all. A ghost upon the face of the earth. Taking the easy offerings, indulging his desires, his habits. Two angles together, working in tandem, the third point of the triangle seated between his eyes, in his solar plexus, behind the cage of his ribs, deep within his darkest places. He, the easy escape, the terrible pursuers. This triangle formed his core, informed his motions, his every action, reaction, his every overt desire.

And before him, more death and pain waited. 

He wandered through adventure after adventure with Pope and others, scoring drugs and working what little jobs what little angles they could work.

---

<!-- TODO: Make sure to add something about how the prairy folk talk. how they use the word 'fuck' as a punctuation mark. -->

<!-- NOTE: A series of Delicate Negotiations -->

While working for a silviculture firm, Nancy and Pope organized a mutiny. Saturday. Some holiday. They put in a half-day up on the mountain. The foreman, Chris, thought circumstance warrented a reward of sorts. He took the crew down the road to the nearest town. Spend the afternoon in civilization. Payday. Had four hours or so to live it up. Hit the bank. Hit the bars, do a little shopping, sit by the lake and soak in the sun. Whatever folks felt.

Nancy and Pope arranged to meet most of the others--the likeminded at least--back by the lake in an hour. They (Nancy and Pope) hit Shenanigan's, the strip club. Got their hands on an eight-ball, a half a sheet of acid, and some serious ass.

Back by the lake. Doled out squares of LSD to the co-workers, Nancy tearing the pieces off with his sweaty fingers, holding them in his palm for the others to take. 

"One or two. Whatever. Just make sure everybody gets some."

They hit the liquor store before the acid took charge.

One flat beer. Great Western Gold. Strong stuff. One bottle spiced rum. One bottle tequila. One bottle bourbon. One bottle fireball cinnamon spiced whiskey. 750 mils per.

Split the haul among the gang and headed to the waterfront.

Nancy, Pope, Igor, Steve, Craig, Sarah, Leila, Jenny, Melvin.

Time wore thin. A casino rose out of the mist. A giant peach by a little dock, glowing from within. Out on the water, filckering in backlit, opaque ephemeral state, the Christmas Castle. Goblins perched upon the spires, on the towers and ramparts and walls, watching from the gatehouse. Sitting on haunches like gargoyles, swarming like angry insects with no way out from their waterlocked position.

Time faded further. Nancy leapt up to the stage. An auditorium in the park. Concrete and steel. Acoustically funneled cone amplifying his voice, aiming it at the empty grass, at the trees and the clear paths.

He came to some time later. He was standing in front of Chris, in front of the foreman. Wiping his palms against his thighs. Sweat dripping from him.

"Where is everybody?" Chris asked.

"They're all down by the water," answered Nancy. "We're gonna stay a while."

"What are you talking about?"

"Some of us are gonna stay."

"To hell with that. We've gotta get back to camp. I'm taking the buss. Get everybody over here, and lets get loaded up. It's time to go."

"We're gonna stay a bit longer."

"The hell you are. I'm not waiting around here while you all get smashed and play in the fucking park. Where the fuck is everybody?"

"They didn't want to come up here. They weren't ready to see you."

"What the fuck? I'm getting back in the bus. We are leaving in ten minutes. Get those fuckers up here and loaded in."

"Um... I don't think you..."

"Shut the fuck up. Go get those assholes, asshole. This train is leaving the station in ten fucking minutes. Get the people on it. We're heading back to camp."

"We're gonna stay a bit--"

"Go fucking tell your goddamned ... tell everybody it's time to go. We're moving out."

"Umm ... okay. I'll just walk down, and make sure everybody knows your going. But I think we're gonna stay. Some of us are gonna stay."

"I'm not fucking waiting around here for you assholes. I'm leaving."

"No. No. We don't expect you ... to ... stay here. We've met some kids. We're gonna hitchike out of here a little later. We've got a ride set up. There's a bus that goes from the lake up the road a little ways. There's a big glowing peach down there, and we're gonna meet at the glow, skin it and swallow the juice."

"The fuck?"

"I mean. We've met some kids. They'll drive us out later. Tonight. We'll make it back to camp tonigh ... by tomorrow morning. We're gonna hitchike a ride with our new friends. On the bus."

"Jesus Christ. Are you all together? You alright?"

"I'm right. Fine. I'm fine. Just a little ... flustered ... sorry. Umm ... so ... you don't have to stay. Just, some of us are gonna hang out in town. We've got a ride for later, so ... you go ahead."

"Bullshit. I could care less what the fuck you all assholes do. But you don't have no ... So long as you all make it back to camp.... Fuck it. You all are on your own. Just..."

"Hmm?"

"Just go down there, and tell everybody that I am leaving in ten minutes. I'll drive anybody back now that wants to go. If y'all stay out here, then getting back to camp is your own responsibility. Just make sure those assholes know what the fuck is going on. Ride now. No questions asked."

"Okay. Okay. I'll go tell 'em."

Craig, Steve, Leila and Jenny took the bait. They climbed back up the hill, after slamming a beer each. Pope wouldn't let them take any more. They stumbled up to the parking lot, stiffling wide, hungry grins as they threatened to take over their faces. They giggled into the backs of their hands and down their shirtsleeves, hiding their faces from Chris as much as was possible. Whispering to eachother in desperate, high-pitched voices, "Quiet. Fucking natural. Quiet. Why it? Act fucking. Oh my god. Do you see his face? That beard ... devil ..."

"Get a hold of yourselves," Said Chris. "Just ... get on the bus. It's time to get the fuck out of here. We'll leave those other fuckers to get back home any way they can. Fuck. I'm gonna take the heat for this if they don't make it."

"They'll make it, fuck," Steve said, punctuating his sentence with a customary expletive.

"Fuck fuck fuck," Chris said to himself, repeating the word over and over under his breath as he accelerated the van onto the two-line highway that led out of town.

Nancy came to again later, talking to Sarah out in front of the casino.

"I can't go in there," he was telling her.

"That's fine," she said. "I'm going to."

"Going to what?"

"I'm going in there," she said.

"Sarah," said Nancy.

She didn't answer.

"Sarah," said Nancy.

She rubbed her hands anxiously together, studying the bright lights, studying the arched entryway, studying the colored, flashing signs, the movements.

"Sarah," said Nancy.

"I'm going in there," she said.

"I can't go in there," said Nancy.

"What's that?"

"I can't go in there."

"That's okay. I'm going in there."

"You're going in there?"

Sarah stood there, rubbing her hands together, looking out from their position where they stood in the bushes, looking out across the parked cars. "I'm going in there," she said.

"I can't go in there," Nancy said. "Look at those lights. You can hear them. You can here the place. It's so loud. You can see it from way ... you can see it from here. You going in there?"

"Is that what I said?"

"Is what what you?" Nancy broke into a fit. He spit a long mucous stream onto the dirt.

"Yeah. Look at it. Gimme a sip of that," said Sarah.

"A sip of what?" Nancy studied the flashing lights. "You hear that?"

"Yeah," said Sarah. "Gimme a sip of that."

"A sip?"

"The whiskey. Gimme a sip of the ... gimme the bottle ... before I go in there."

Nancy looked down at his hands, saw he was clutching in his left hand a bottle of whiskey, holding it by the neck, his knuckles white and strained. He took a swig and held it out to Sarah. "Here you go honey. Don't take it in there."

"What's that?" Sarah took the bottle and put it to her lips. She turned it upside-down for a few hefty swallows. "What's that? Take what?"

"Don't take it in there. The bottle." Nancy spread his arms out wide, holding one out to either side, making his body into the shape of a cross, more or less. His body stiff. Rigid form. "Don't go into the casino ..." Nancy closed his eyes and began to tilt his head slowly backward. He fell into a bush with an unceremonious crash of breaking twigs and rustling leaves. "Don't take the bottle in there. They'll throw you right out. I can't go in there. They'll throw me right out."

"How long have they been in there?" Sarah asked.

"What?" Nancy's voice from the bushes.

"Here," Sarah poured a little splash of whiskey onto Nancy's head.

"Hey!" he shouted in protest. "Wait. Try that now." He lay with his face turned up to the sky, eyes and mouth wide open. "Lay it on me."

Sarah turned her attention to focus on Nancy. To focus a little sharper on Nancy. She poured a quick draught straight into his waiting mouth. "Yes," she whispered. "How long, do you think?" She asked, her voice soft but clear.

"How long? How long what?"

"How long have they been in there?"

"Who?"

"How."

"I'm ... gimme another pour."

Sarah turned the bottle for another pour into Nancy's mouth. The shot fell straight into his waiting maw.

"You sank my battleship," he said.

"They've been in there for a long time."

Nancy twisted his body around, turned so he could half-crawl, half-scramble out of the bramble and out onto the parking lot. "The've been.... What are they doing?"

"Doing? They went to win some money. We could use some money."

"We could?"

"We could."

"For what?"

"Money."

"Right. We could use some money. They're in there? How long?"

"I dunno. A while. I'm going in. I'm gonna check it out."

"I can't go in there."

"I know. I'm gonna go in by myself."

"Did you want my help? Do you need backup? I can't go in there."

"No. Just ... here." She held out the bottle. Nancy took it in hand, and brought it to his lips, holding the glass upturned, he took his feet. He let out a long satisfied breath. "I'll just ... watch the ... peach ... or the cars ... and the door. Good luck, fuck."

"Yeah. I'm going in."

"Do it. Good luck"

"Gonna check it out."

"Check it out."

"See what's taking those guys."

"Maybe they're winning tons of money."

"Good. I hope so."

"Better that, than if they...."

"Than if they what?"

"I dunno.... Better than if they've been caught."

"Caught?"

"Caught and strung up."

"Caught for what?"

Sarah stood in silence for a moment. "Good point." She started walking toward the flashing, chiming building.

"Do it, Sarah. Go." Nancy said.

"I'm doing it," she said. She was doing it. She was walking across the lot, through the rows of parked cars, heading toward the massive arched doorway.

* * *

A flash of light from across the way, from out on the water. A blinding flash of light from a tower. A blue tower, like a lighthouse. Beam of light like a ray twisting through the night, seeking out Nancy's face. Seeking out his eyes. Spotlight from a guard tower. A squealing whine pitched up, and his feet tied themselves into a knot and he stumbled as he tried to run.

He woke up standing next to Igor, still in the parking lot.

Nancy was shouting encouragement. "Do it," he said. "Do it. Let it go!"

Igor stood with his feet wide apart, bent nearly in half, his hands braced on his knees, back tensed into an awkward hunch, a wave of propulsion frozen in mid motion. "Ueaaghh," he said, vomiting onto the tarmac between his feet.

Nancy took him by the arm and guided him toward the side of the lot, toward the curb and the small brush. "Here you go, buddy," he said. "Just stand ... right ... here. Stand ... tight."

He stood behind Igor. Positioned him. Patting his shoulders, squaring them. "There you go," he said, and started to back up slowly, counting. "One. Three. Two. No. Five. No. Ten. Nine. Eight."

He took a run at the Siberian bear, leapt from the ground, placed both feet onto Igor's shoulders and shoved with all his might, extending his canonball body into a straight line. Line of force connecting the intention, the tension with Igor's body, thrusting him out and away and into the bushes, where he landed with a magnificent groaning crash of twigs and dried leaves and gravel, a stream of bile and alcohol issuing from his mouth, arcing across the night sky. "Whauuffsch?"

Nancy hovered for a moment, parallel to the horizon, floating in space, watching Igor wretch and fly and collapse onto the inflatable green brown shrubbery, piercing its skin with the yellow-green razor whip he swung from his mouth, swung with the motion of his neck, of his head, gripping the lashing weapon with his teeth. With a crinkling hiss, the bush collapsed under the weight of the Siberian, giving up its lungful of air.

Nancy fell to the black, stripe-painted earth. Landed on his side, the breath knocked from him as it had been knocked from the bush, and he lay there, looking up at the moon. Silent. Soft groans from the bush, outside the peripheral scope of his vision.

A voice. A youngish male voice. "Did you see that? What the fuck was that?" Footsteps from across the lot.

"Igor," said Nancy. "I think we've been spotted." His voice was a whisper. Hushed, but insistent. "Stay low."

"Ugh ... queue."

"Over here. Over by that white truck."

"What's that? I think they're coming over here. Keep it down." Nancy rolled onto his stomach and started crawling toward a big white yacht turning slowly in the air. He could crawl into its mouth. They'd never find him in there.

"Fughh ... ewe."

"Igor. Shut up," Nancy grabbed a tooth and pulled himself into the strangely dry mouth of the white beast.

"Hey! Who's there?"

"Aww ... Come on, Jimmy. It's nothing. Nobody's here."

"No. I swear. Somebody just ran along here ... and ... dove into the bushes or something ... Hey!"

"Fuck you!"

"What the fuck? Me?"

"Okay. Somebody's there. But we don't need to be. Come on come on come on."

"Nancy!" Igor lumbered to his feet, the forest cracking in splintering protest as he hoisted his frothing bulk and got himself moving.

"Oh Jesus christ," said Jimmy or his friend.

Igor came charging out of the brush like a rabid sasquatch. He attacked the mouth of the great white yacht and grabbed Nancy by the collar. "Mother fucker," he said. "Get out from there." He pulled Nancy, dragged him across the pavement and up onto his feet. He lifted Nancy sideways in his arms and staggered back over toward the bushes and dumped Nancy. Tossed him into the brush and dirt.

Nancy managed to hang onto the great Russian's sleeve as he fell, which only served to bring Igor down after him. He landed on Nancy, crushing him as they tumbled about, struggling in the brush.

Nancy woke up by the glowing peach. A little creaking walk extended into the lake, floating on its smooth, gently undulating surface.

"Your parents are out of town?" he was saying to Jimmy, who looked a little nervous for some reason. "Yeah. Let's take this party back over to Jimmy's."

"I don't ..."

Sarah beckoned to Jimmy, who followed her out onto the floating walk. "Hang on a minute, Nancy," she said. She whispered into the kid's ear. His face lit up with a rich red light, and an awkward grin split the pink oval near in half.

"But ... we can't all.... I mean, I can't bring everyone over."

"We've got plenty of booze," Nancy chimed in, trying to either climb up on top of or somehow into the glowing peach. He wasn't quite sure which. Bright seams of electric light shone in the deceptively sweet-looking surface of the giant fruit. "What the fuck is this thing?" he said. "Bring some other friends or whatever. We'll stay in the yard, if you're worried. We don't even need to go in your house."

"Look ..." said Jimmy. Then something else Nancy couldn't hear. he talked to Sarah in hushed tones, tentatively placing a hand on her sleeve.

Nancy turned his attention back to the spheroid. If only he could ... could what? Get in it? Get on it? Yes. Exactly. Get it in. Get it on. "Sarah. You gonna work your magic with that kid or what? We should maybe have a place to go..." Nancy was speaking under his breath. He could barely hear himself, didn't really understand what he was saying, anyhow. He had his fingers securely within a widening seam in the peach. His feet braced against some unnatural ledge or outcropping. He hung upside-down or sideways or somehow skewed, pulling at the gap. "I'm gonna open it. I'm gonna open it."

A sharp gasp, an intake of breath and a little squeal caught Nancy's attention, and he turned from the peach just in time to see a giant splash. Sarah pushed the kid into the water. His arms outstretched and flailing, he fell backwards and went under.

Nancy started laughing uproariously. He fell off of the peach, landed hard on his back, gasped for air, and started laughing even louder.

"I give up," Sarah said, walking past him, back up toward the amphitheater. "Little bastard. Going nowhere. Fuck him."

Nancy woke up on the grass, walking in circles with his arms outstretcheed and his head thrown way back, looking up at the Milky Way, looking up at the moon.

"I won two hundred bucks at the blackjack table," Pope said.

"Fuck yeah. This is amazing."

"Got any of that blow left?"

"The blow? Oh shit yes! I haven't even touched it ... come on."

They walked back down the park, weaving in and out of the shadows. There was a large building with vending machines and restrooms. Restrooms open all night. They went in, took a stall, keyed scoops of white powder into their electric buzzing brainstems.

Nancy woke up on the sand, just a short way from the still-glowing, but no longer enticing peach. Jimmy was there, wet, but not dripping. His friend stood nearby. He said something. Nancy didn't know what, but it struck him funny anyway. He started to laugh.

"Get the fuck out of here," said Pope.

"What?" said Jimmy's friend.

"What?" said Jimmy.

"What?" said Nancy, a little later than the other two.

Pope took a final sip from the bottle he held in his fist, inverted the glass, and swung it at Jimmy's face. It exploded in a shower of blood and gleaming shards. Jimmy screamed and held hands up to hold his face together. His nose, his cheek, his eye. Nancy couldn't tell what was where or how it should have been, but blood streamed out from between the kid's fingers.

"Oh fuck," said Jimmy's friend, who put an arm around Jimmy and tried to lead him away, muttering indistinct panicked placating words.

Nancy looked over at Pope, who had blood all over his hand.

"Little fucking bitch," Pope said. "Did you hear what he said?" 

"No," Nancy said. "You cut?"

"Cut?"

"Yeah. Are you cut?"

"No. What? Am I cut? I don't know."

"That's a lot of blood. Let me see."

Pope held out his hand, and Nancy took it, held him by the wrist, angling his fingers toward the light, trying to get an idea of what he was looking at through his swirling vision.

"Yeah, your finger is sliced up pretty good. Squeeze it. Wait. There any glass in there?"

Nancy woke up back near the casino. Hotel entrance. The whole gang was sulking in the shadows, looking around nervously.

"That kid's gonna come back with a truckload of rednecks," said Melvin.

"We're gonna get a room," Nancy said. "We're gonna get a room, stay in there 'till morning, then we'll get the fuck out of town."

"Who's gonna get the room?" Melvin said.

"They won't give shit to me," said Pope. "I'm covered with fucking blood."

"Puke," said Igor.

"Blood. What the fuck are? Oh you. Yeah. You're a little ripe," said Pope, Sniffing at the hulking russian.

---

Sarah and Nancy elected to go in together to book the room. They took Pope's blackjack money and marched up the stairs. Bright, blinding lights, marble statues in the lobby. A fountain tinkling away. Night clerk in a crisp uniform. Didn't even look sleepy. Nancy made up a story about losing a coat somewhere in the casino with his I.D. fold in it. No matter, he always kept cash separate. They gave an assumed name, and Nancy inquired as to whether they would need an additional deposit or any such thing, the clerk shook his head. "That won't be necessary. You aren't ..." he paused for a moment, looking the pair slowly up and down, studying the grass stains and dirt on Nancy's shirt and slacks, "going to trash the place, are you?"

Nancy laughed. "Do I look like I've got the energy left to trash anything? I worked all that out on the lawn," he said, and slapped Sarah's ass with a playful palm. "Didn't I, hon?"

They took the elevator upstairs and checked out the room. One king size bed, a sitting area with a little couch and some cushioned chairs, a kitchenette, bathroom with jaccuzi style bath tub.

Nancy unfolded a little magazine-paper flap and chopped up a hefty, if loose, line on the back of the toilet. "This'll work," he said.

"What are you doing?" Sarah asked. "I've got to piss."

"Hang on a second. I mean, don't mind me. You want one of these? It's not very good, but it's something. Make you shit, at least."

"Sure, why not?" Sarah unbuckled her jeans and slid them down to her knees. The toilet seat fell with a clank and she sat down. As the sound of water jetting into water filled the room, Nancy leaned over behind Sarah's head and sniffed the cheap white powder through a rolled-up bill. A little through one nostril, a little through the other. He tilted his head back and held the little tube out to Sarah.

"Hang on," she said. "Let me wipe off here." She took a wad of toilet paper, wiped and flushed the toilet. She pulled up her panties, buckled her jeans, turned around and straddled the seat. She took the little tube and inhaled all that Nancy had left behind. "We better go let those fuckers in."

They went down a stairwell, looking for an entrance into the building away from the lobby, away from the front. They argued about who would stay with the door. Neither of them wanted to, so they propped it open with a rock. Found the rest of the gang and led them up the stairs.

Melvin was disgusted by the cocaine use. He was disgusted by Pope's sliced up hand.

Sarah found a sewing kit in the bathroom. Needle and a little thread. "Here. Let me stitch it up," she said. She used to do it for her brother, who was always slicing himself up. They cut up a couple of hefty rails on the coffee table, did them and then Sarah took pope into the bathroom with what was left of the bottle of fireball. 

A couple of muffled screams and pained grunts came out from under the door, eventually the sounds shifted to muffled screams and grunts of a different sort. 

Igor lay on the bed, his body spread out across the sheets like an invasive growth. Melvin sat in a cushioned chair, complaining.

"Shut the fuck up," Nancy told him, putting down a cigarette to do another line, chasing that down with a kiss on the mouth of the rum bottle.

After a while, the cocaine stung Nancy's nostrils, but ceased to maintain his high. Law of diminishing returns or some such thing he thought, tearing another strip off the glass.

Igor woke up about an hour before dawn, stretched and stumbled into the bathroom. He kicked off his boots and climbed into the tub. Turned on the water, pulled the shower nozzle off its mount on the wall and hosed himself down. He took off his pants and scrubbed them under the water stream. He took off his shirt, scrubbed it with bodywash, wrung it out and threw it over the shower curtain-rod next to his pants. Did the same with his socks and underwear. "What? What the fuck are you guys doing?"

Nancy and Sarah stood in the doorway, watching him. Nancy walked into the bathroom and offered Igor the bottle of fireball.

Igor tossed his underwear and socks over the curtain rod and turned off the hot water. "What the fuck is this?" he asked, taking the bottle and pulling a deep sip. "Fucking red-hot? Candy whiskey?"

Nancy shrugged and took the bottle back when Igor held it out. 

Igor was pulling deep, hissing breaths, in through his nostrils and out through his mouth. His muscles tensed under the rapidly cooling stream of water. "Oooohhhhh. Fuck," he said, and dropped the nozzle into the bottom of the tub. It sprayed water up and over the side, soaking the little towel on the floor. He twisted off the water and climbed out, shaking himself off like a bear. He grabbed a towel, started to dry himself. "Were you guys doing rails last night?" he asked. "Got any more?"

"Fuck yeah," said Nancy.

"It's kindof shit though," said Sarah.

Nancy shrugged. "Kindof. But whatever. We've still got a couple left. Dry your face off. I'll set you up on the coffee table."

They set up another round of lines. Counted their money.

"I don't want to walk around out there, stumbling around like a bunch of fucking ... let's get a cab. We'll get a cab to the edge of town or something. Twenty bucks for a cab."

"We'll ... Fine ... Twenty on the cab. We should eat something ... get some coffee ... get some food, fuck. I don't know."

"Right. Twenty for the cab. How much for food and shit?"

"Continental."

"What?"

"Fucking Nancy and Sarah. You guys go and load up on fucking bagels and muffins and shit. Put a bag together. A bunch of shit."

"Why don't we all go down there?"

"The fucking. The desk guy. You two checked in. Not the goddamed gang of us."

"Fuck, it's gotta be another shift by now. Nobody gives a fuck."

"It's only been ... four hours."

"Where's Melvin?"

"He's sleeping. We put him to bed."

"What the fuck, man? You talking about? Bed?"

"Yeah. In the closet."

The closet door was closed, piled up against it were chairs, the little table, the microwave. A chair leaned against it, so the back came in under the doorknob.

"Lets get out of here."

"Fuck. Right. Wake that kid up. We'll meet you at the amphitheater in the park. We'll get out of town and fucking just hitchike back to Dukeston."

Sarah took the plastic bag from the room's trash can, and went down to the lobby with Nancy. They filled the thing up with bagels and chalky apples and muffins and a couple of bananas, some little yogurt cups. Packets of peanut butter, packets of jams, jellies, honey, whipped butter. Sarah took an empty bottle from her purse, and shielding it with her body, so the one elderly couple in the 'dining room' couldn't directly see as she tried to fill it up with coffee. She did fill it up, but made a mess, splashing black liquid all over the counter top. She shook black drops from her fingers and wiped down the bottle with paper napkins. She stuck the cork back into it and tucked the bottle back into her purse. Threw the wet wad of paper down. Walking out, she turned to the couple, who watched her with uncomfortable bewilderment. "They're out of coffee," she said. "You might want to let them know."

"You guys are seriously fucked up ..." Melvin said.

"Shut the fuck up. I'm serious," said Pope. "I don't want to hear anything else from you. Not a goddamned word."

Sarah held out the bag.

"I'm not ready for that shit," said Pope.

Igor reached in and pulled out a plain bagel, bit off about a third of it in one mouthful and started to chew. "Anything to make it wet?" he said.

Nancy held out a collection of little packets. Igor took a peanut butter, tore of the foil top and scooped it out with his bagel end.

"How we gonna fit in a cab?"

"One. Two. Three. Four. Five."

"Van cab? Van cab will do it."

"Where's the fucking ... get on the street, up there? on the phone?"

There was some road stop market souvenir trap at the seventeen dollar point. They staggered out, let the driver keep the three dollars over, looked at hand-woven ponchos and inflatable river toys and split into groups to hitchhike. 

Nancy and Pope assumed the others went back to Dukeston and back to work, but they never knew for sure. They got picked up by a twenty-something kid in a beige sedan with a long way to go and a big bag of speed. "Fuck it. We're going all the way," they told him.

---

Back at the Kryczyk estate, the end of affairs drew nearer, creeping in out of the darkness. They had finally acheived a sort of equilibrium. A regular pattern of action and behavior and relationship that had eluded them for such a long time.

Layla sat outside her father's studio, wearing the stiffest, most uncomfortable clothes she could bring herself to put next to her skin.

Everything was wrong. She'd dressed up in anticipation of a birthday dinner. Deborah had gone out of her way on several occasions to make sure Layla was expecting something wonderful. And she had been. She had been abuzz with excitement. But everything went wrong. She should have known it would. 

Upstairs, Deborah was drunk. Throwing her books around the library, pulling them off shelves, looking for something. Looking for something specific. Trashing the place.

Layla listened outside the door with an uncomfortable feeling in her gut. She could tell something was amiss, but still had high hopes, the music would set her right, she thought, and she exhaled a sigh of relief when the piano announced itself. A few warmup exercises, which broke off much too soon, sounds of muffled voices. Laughter.

A click, soft hum, and the piece Sam has been working on began to play. But it was wrong. 

<!-- TODO: Pick a piano piece for Sam. Something appropriate. a little dark, perhaps. romantic. see other note - massenet - got some potentials in the play drive -->

Layla's stomach began to turn, immediately. Dark shapes gathered in the corners of the room, little snatching claws reached out from beneath each tread of the stairs to clutch at her ankles, to pull her down through the stone, to tear her limbs apart. 

That wasn't Sam playing the piece.

Layla tried to stand, and fell. She scrambled upwards, clawing at the marble stairs, she fell and fell again, smashing her knees, her shins into the cold, smooth stone. Fixtures of light pulsated like air or fluid filled sacks of spiney flesh, burnt umber streamers cast about the room, weaving a web, casting a net with which to catch her, to prevent her escape.

What was wrong? This was not Sam's playing. Did Layla make some mistake? Was there another student tonight? Did she have her days mixed up? No. She didn't think so. Sam was in there, they were to have dinner after. This was definitely the day. Why she bothered to put on these terrible clothes. Wanted to make a good impression for the girl. To make her happy. Sam's birthday, was it? Was it the night of the school dance? Some thing as had been discussed earlier. No matter. This was Sam's day, Sam's evening. She should have been in there, should have been playing, but the walls threatened to close in on Layla, swelling and groaning. She could feel the shapes of hands pressed to them, stretching them, stretching them out to close in on her, to drag her down.

The sounds were of her father's playing, but less skillful.

<!-- TODO: a moment in which Layla has the opportunity to share her love of music with her father. A moment that gives us reason to believe that he might understand her and forgive her aversion to his playing. But she does not want to let him know that his playing is painful to her, while others' playing brings her joy. She is terribly confused by her own feelings, and the chance to communicate and perhaps share a bond with her father slips away. -->


<!-- TODO: make this scene a birthday celebration in which deborah gets drunk and heads to her library to 'find something' in a rage. Walter excuses himself and takes Sam into the studio 'to rehearse before the recital' - he's got a trick to show her (or she has a trick to show *him*) -->


And not the rich, live tones of the piano strings resonating in its carefully crafted wooden body. This was a tape. Walter taped his own playing, deliberately playing the piece a little clumsier than he would have done. And now, when Sam was with him in his studio, and Mother was upstairs, he played the tape ...

Layla had a terrible dream the night before.

* * *

I had a terrible dream. I was in bed. I was at home, in bed. In bed, but my room was in a tower. The house, the whole house, like towers and spires and walls. A wine bottle tower, walls of books. But blue. Everything was blue in the dream. Blue and white. Winter white. I heard the piano begin to play, and I knew that Sam had arrived. I knew suddenly that she was coming, and I was waiting for her, up in my bed. In the tower. Somebody was coming. I was waiting for Somebody. Sam, I think. 

But I couldn't get out of bed. I couldn't bring myself to throw off the blankets. There was only one sheet on me. Cold. Pressing me down, but I couldn't lift it, I couldn't turn it aside. A weight pressing down on me, and from deep below, the sounds of piano. Of music. 
<!-- TODO: Sam's theme here -->
Sam's theme. That piece, but something wrong with it. Technical and calculating and dark rather than emotive and intuitive. Less feeling. No. Less surrender. When she plays, she surrenders to the music. It guides her fingers across the ...

This ... this was different. Struggle for surrender was there, but the playing ... too forceful ... demanding ... something more.

I couldn't get up, and I knew that it wasn't Sam, down below. Someone was coming, something was coming and I didn't know. The whites faded, the blues deeper. So dark. The tower began to pulse and sway, and the sheet pressed down on me. Pressed harder. Couldn't get up. Couldn't move. Couldn't breathe. 

Then I knew I was sleeping. In my own bed, at home, but I still couldn't move. I could see the foot of my own bed, the corners of my room, and the icy blue of the tower all at once, it bled through, creeping from my dream into my room. From down below, the music playing. That piece of hers, but wrong. Flashing colors in my head, swelling and contracting. Sea urchins of quivering jelly expanding from nothing into terrible looming presence, then contracting. Shrinking back into nothing. I couldn't move. In the tower and in my room both. Couldn't catch ...

Just a little moan. I let out a little moan, and the sound filled my ears, overcoming the dark music, and I let it go. It let me go. I could move a finger, a toe, just a touch. I moved it. Shook my body to life ...

---

She crawled up the stairs and into her mother's library, Deborah was in a fit. Tearing books from the shelves and letting them fall to the floor.

"Where is it?" she muttered under her breath, over her breath, her voice twisted with anger, with frustration, with rage.

A fat and crooked candle guttered on the table, sputtering, splashing hot wax onto the open pages of some ancient leather-bound volume.

Layla stumbled into the room. She was having a hard time keeping her feet, focusing her eyes.

"Have you been crying?" Deborah asked.

"I ..."

"Your goddamned father. Took my ... Where the ..?"

Deborah couldn't find something. Something she felt to be dreadfully important to her research, but she didn't seem to remember what it was. At least, she couldn't voice it clearly to Layla, who was desperate to help her find it. 

Layla needed solace and distraction. She couldn't think of what was happening downstairs, for the thought of it brought the music back to her ears, and made her dizzy and ill.

<!-- TODO: deborah is missing something. She blames her husband for taking it from her. She interrupts him while he is 'working' in his studio - to catastrophic result -->

Deborah soon decided to smash her way into her husband's studio and get back the damn thing. He couldn't just come up and help himself to her treasures whenever he felt like, without first clearing with her. 

"Violated!"

Layla tried to stop her, she talked her clever game, tried to distract her. "What are we looking for?" she swallowed hard, trying to clear her head, to clear her mouth. Ran a hand down her face, dug her fingers into her eye sockets, trying to clear the haze. "What are we looking for?"

Layla tried desperately to catch and hold her mother's attention. She was desperate, felt she would crumble without it, would fall apart completely, but she couldn't hold it. 

She had her once or twice, but Deborah was drunk, distractable, and angry. She couldn't be held.

Layla clutched at her as Deborah stormed from the room. Layla fell, reaching after her mother, who turned away and charged down to the studio.

Layla lay panting on the floor amid scattered pages and books lying open in awkward positions, their pages creasing and folding in unnatural ways.

She lay as one of the books, her arm folded uncomfortably beneath her. Gasping and hissing labored breath through her mouth, her face filling with mucous, eyes puffed and heavy.

The strains of piano music crept back into her. In the silence of the library, the music once again took center stage to Layla's attentions. She couldn't shut it out. Books flexed and stretched their spines, began to crawl across the floor like strange invertabrates, like insects with crackling, rustling mechanisms, they began to cover her legs, to gnaw on her flesh. Consumed by useless knowledge.

Terrible shouting from below. Doors slamming. The smack of open palm on flesh, Layla thought. Sam's startled and pained scream. Walter roaring in rage or shame or both. Deborah, hysterical, screaming over them all.

Layla couldn't quite tell what was happening. She tried to picture the scene. Tried to let it go. She didn't want to see it. She didn't want to know. The music roared to higher life when the studio door crashed wide, and Layla forgot herself for a moment in the horror of it.

But with a crash and explosion of breaking, splintering things. The music came to a halt, and Layla was once again sprawled uncomfortably on the library floor, in the middle of a mess of books and papers. Orange light from the fat, crooked candle flickered and shifted, casting strange shifting shadows as it bent and bowed to desperate currents of air.

Soon the voices from down below stopped. Layla tried to get up, but couldn't. It was like some invisible force held her. A ghost sat on her, weighing her down, pressing her down into the floor, pinning her arms, her legs. She had a tough time breathing. Bubbling breath through her snot-filled nose. 

She lost track of time. How many minutes she laid paralyzed? Hours? She could not say, but the candle flame kept flickering, so minutes it likely was. Long minutes.

Eventually she heard the slapping of feet upon the marble stairs. Ascending. A voice calling to itself in repetition. Repeating some angry phrases over and over again.

Deborah came back into the room. "Get up," she said.

Layla groaned a little and tried to move her body, but failed. Felt pathetic pathetic pathetic and trapped.

Deborah grabbed a fistful of her daughter's hair, and dragged her toward the table and into a sitting position.

"Is this what you've been doing? You little fucking bitch? Keeping me busy while your father fucks your little friend down in his studio, playing his ... fucking ... disgusting tapes of his own goddamned ... You, and you're little fucking games." Deborah slapped her across the face, hard. "All this time. This sweetness ... this talk. You like to talk?"

Layla sat mystefied, head lolling on weak, gelatinous neck. Confused. "To talk?" she said.

Her mother hit her again, pulled her by the hair, dragged her to her feet and thrust her into a chair. "You evil little cunt. How dare you cover for your father? How dare you trick and distract me while he abuses that little girl. I'll teach you to talk to me. Make me look a fool in my own house? All of you conspiring...." 

Deborah tilted her daughter's head backward so she faced the ceiling, held her tight and still so that she might not struggle free. But Layla did not struggle. She whimpered in pain where her mother's fingers sunk into her flesh, where she pulled her hair, causing some to snap and break and pull free of her scalp, but she didn't struggle to get free. She didn't struggle.

"I'll silence that broken mouth of yours," Deborah said. She pinched her daughter's nose shut so that she had to open her mouth, though Layla's nose was clogged with teary snot already, she breathed heavily through her mouth. Her skin, her face pale and white, her mouth pink and gasping. Deborah pushed her head further back, so the back of the chair dug into Layla's neck. She dug the heel of her hand into her daughter's eye socket and leaned on it, pressing with all her weight. She reached for the guttering candle and poured hot wax into her daughter's mouth. Layla screamed and struggled, overcome with the pain of it. Her mother held her fast, standing over her, holding her arms to her sides with the scissoring grip of her legs, pressing her face down, her fingernails cut Layla's skin, drew blood from her nose and cheek. Just a touch. Little crescent tears in the flesh. A few drops of blood. The wax hardened in Layla's mouth, choking her, it hardened on her lips, the skin around the smooth droplets turning instantly pink. Flames fell from the upended candle. Little balls of burning wax splashed onto Layla's lips, into her mouth. She screamed and screamed, bucking beneath her mother, desperately trying to get away from the burning pain.

The flame went out, and Deborah began to smash the candle into her daughter's mouth. It was to large to penetrate into her, but she smashed it over and over into her lips, breaking the skin against her teeth, the wax soft from the heat of its recently extinguished flame flexed and dented and formed, taking impressions of the girl's teeth as Deborah smashed it into her mouth again and again.

Manny came running up the stairs, eventually. He pulled Deborah off the girl, and carried Layla downstairs and out of the house. Layla saw only blurry images and dreamlike motions, riding a little boat across the waves of a choppy sea. Manny carried her in his arms, wrapped her in a blanket and put her in the back seat of the Lincoln and drove off.

---

Layla spent the next few days in a daze. Manny took her to a cabin up in the hills. Far away from the chaos of home. 

Layla felt safe when Manny held her. He picked her up and carried her down the stairs. He wrapped her in a blanket as he had done before. He gently laid her into the back of the Lincoln and closed the door. Everything was silent. All fell quiet. No shouting, no sounds of violence, no conversation, no yes no no. Drawbridge raised, gate slammed shut. Portcullis dropped. She was on the inside, looking out, but seeing nothing. The ice-blue walls enclosed her. Like a coffin burried underground. Like a box floating in the emptiness of space. She, wrapped in a blanket in the back seat of the car, enclosed in glass and steel. Numb, isolated, protected, imprisoned. The seat, the car, the space, the small little space she sat huddled, clutching her knees, clutching herself to herself. She could have been anywhere, anywhen. Outside the car could have been anything, could have been nothing. She felt like Schrodinger's Cat, inside the box, theorizing about the existence of the outside world. Did it exist? She didn't care, didn't know, didn't want to know, she couldn't know. The world outside both did and did not exist simultaneously. It was nothing until she might reflect it back upon itself. There was nothing until she would thrust herself into it, focus and reflect its fabric, its being or nonbeing. There was nothing outside, there was everything outside. She was at the bottom of a well. A deep and silent well. She was floating through the air, cushioned in soft cloud. She was burried in rock, deep beneath the earth. Just below the surface. Men were lowering the car slowly into the earth, using a simple system of cables and pulleys. The car rocked gently back and forth as they lowered it into the grave. She could hear faint murmurings. The faint, faraway murmurings of last rights, of prayer, of blessings and lamentations. A white lily, flying through the air, gently. Slowly revolving, turning through space without an axis, the flower hung above the swaying casket, not frozen, but honey-slow. Finally, it accelerated downward, slapped into the glass just above Layla's head. 

She gave a quiet start, blinking up into the darkness. Dirt began to spatter against the roof of the car, against the glass. Shovelful by shovelful it came down. Everyone standing around the open hole in the earth, tossing gentle little load after gentle little load down upon the casket, even as it descender further down, swaying gently on the ropes, swaying gently on the cables that held it. The dirt fell like rain, rolling off the glass in streaks, reflecting strange lights from the outside world, from inside the car, from the console, from her eyes. The glass was no more than a mirror, reflecting the darkness within back upon itself.

She drifted in and out of consciousness. Manny drove on and on. He didn't talk to her, or, if he did, she didn't register, didn't respond. She didn't hear, didn't understand what was happening, did she? Manny worried. 

He couldn't make up his mind about her. What did she need, back there? She wasn't hurt that bad, was she? She didn't respond to a word I said. She's still breathing. I can see her body moving up and down, when I look through the rear-view mirror.

What the fuck happened back there? That shit was fuuuccked uuup. 

Always weird. That family. But what the hell was all that?

The girl, Laylay's friend, crying. Walter ... like a zombie, no? Sitting there. Comforting the girl? In shock? They lost their minds. All of them. Fuck it. I'm taking her out of here. I'm taking. Where the fuck?

I should get her something. I should stop for some ... water at least. For right now. She needs water. I need water. Should probably get coffee too. A cup of coffee would go a long way. Long way to go, if I go there. Who knows? who will know? They'll be looking. Will they be looking? How hard will they look?

Get some food. Nothing there. A couple days worth, at least. Bread maybe. Coffee. Rice. Beans. Eggs? Milk?

I stopped at a travel center. Picked up basic supplies. They didn't have any firewood. I wanted to get some firewood. But I got food and all that. Some rope, tape, a flashlight. Heavy duty flashlight.

Whatever. I had this girl in the back of the car. Layla. Watched her grow up and all. Special girl. Beautiful. Thought she was ... I dunno, at first. Strange. She was a strange girl. Smart as anything, stubborn like shit. Always ... different. Alien, kind of.

She hadn't said a word since I put her in there. I couldn't let her stay at home. Couldn't keep her there. It wasn't safe for her there.

"It wasn't safe for you there," I said to her. She just laid there, staring at the back of the seat in front of her, staring through the seat, off into nothing somewhere, or nowhere or what.

She couldn't stay. Mrs. Kryczyk would've killed her.

"I was afraid she was gonna kill you, little miss."

The ground was dry at the station, looked like we were moving faster than the storm. Made it out of the wet front edges. I asked the guy if he knew anything about the passes. I shouldn't have.

I realized, as soon as I asked, as soon as I started talking to the guy, that I shouldn't have. I should have left well enough alone, just got my food, all my stuff and just moved on, got back in the car and made for it. But instead I asked him. Asked the guy about a specific direction where I might.... He'd forget.

Anyhow, the passes ... he thought about it. 

"I haven't heard anything yet," he said. "But it looks a little grim out there. Let me call ahead."

Fuck. He wouldn't forget that. Wouldn't forget the call. Forget the call. It would help to know, anyhow. Wouldn't do no good to get stuck halfway up and just have to come right back down anyhow.

"Still dry up there," he said, putting the phone down. "But you'd better hurry. Looks like it'll snow hard up there. Need chains? Just in case?"

He threw in that last bit about the chains just as an afterthought, I knew, but he had a point. I would have preferred to deal with him a little less, to be a more anonymous customer, but ... perhaps it would have been more unusual to....

"You alright, mister?"

Of course I was alright. Fuck. I bought some chains, threw them in the trunk with the rest of the supplies. The groceries. I'd have to stop and get some wood somewhere. As we got further along, there would be chances enough for that. Opportunities would present. I bought a case of beer and a box of red wine and a bottle of whiskey too. Hot chocolate mixes. She liked that stuff. White bread, cheese singles. She used to like to mash it up into little doughy balls, pop in her mouth whole or just chew off the side. Biting into the damn thing with her molars, stuffing her cheeks with the shit. Picked up a CD from a rack by the door, by the exit, by the register. ZZ-Top. Might like something to listen to. She was weird about music though ... but at this rate ... even a tantrum might be good to bring out of her. She was just sitting back there not even moving. Maybe something else to take her mind off ... I could always put it up front and turn the volume way down. Shit. I better get some headphones and a little CD player too. 

I went back inside, got a little cheap CD player.

"Car stereo doesn't have one?" the guy asked. "What happened, you just forgot?"

"No. It's got one," I said. "I just ... wanted to get a little hand-held. Headphones ... for later. Can I get some double A's? This thing takes double A's doesn't it?" I looked at the package, studying it for any sign of battery type and all.

We beat the storm out, more or less. Snow was coming down when we went over the pass, it was starting to stick and build up a little. Not more than an inch or two when we cleared the high point. It kept on coming down as we hit the back roads. Had to slow down plenty then, and the storm overtook us. I forgot about picking up firewood, but when we made it to the cabin, there was plenty stacked under the eaves. A little touch wet on the outside, but in good order. I could chop more. Was only worried about this first night. Snow coming down like this ... who knew when we'd get out. Layla hadn't spoken. She didn't open her mouth at all. She was shaking a little when I carried her out.

"You're gonna be just fine." I told her. "Just fine. Let's get you inside. I'll make some cocoa. Yeah? Warm you up a little. It'll be good for you. Good for me too. Could use a little warm-up about now. Eh honey? That's a good girl. Let's walk a little. Mind the step there. Okay. In we go."

I set her on the couch and bundled her up. She'd been in the car by herself for a while. I left it with the engine running and the heat on, as I messed around in the cabin, sweeping out the worst of the dust and lighting some kerosene lamps. Opened up the linen chest and set out a bunch of blankets. Then I brought her in, after setting up. Had a fire going in the wood stove. Put a kettle on top. Took a while to get the temperature up, to bring the thing to a boil. I sipped some whiskey while I waited. Tried to talk to the girl, but she didn't respond. I noticed then the wax on her face, around her mouth. She pulled away when I started to peel that shit off of her, I had to hold her down as I tried to clean out her mouth, scrubbing her with a toothbrush. I had bought a couple at the travel center. Before the water boiled, it was getting hot. I took a clean towel, poured some of the water on to it, to wipe her face. She didn't like it. Must have hurt her. Poor thing. All cut and smashed up.

"Just hold still," I told her. "I'll make it better. I've got you. Hold still, I said. Here. Easy ... Hold it. Hold still, dammit. Look. Let me help. Just hold ... stop pulling away."

Her cheek tasted a little salty. Like tears. Her skin was tender and cold.

I got her cleaned up, wiped out a couple mugs from the cabinet, emptied some packets into them. Hot chocolate for her, I had a cappuccino one myself. Wanted the caffeine. It was late, but I had lots to do before sleep. Poured a bit of whiskey into each mug. Stirred them with a knife. There were little white marshmellow bits floating around in hers. I carefully lifted one out on the blade of the knife, brought it to my lips, sucked it down. Burnt my mouth a little on the hot little thing. "Fuck," I said. I couldn't help it.

She didn't touch her cocoa. I brought it to her, sat with her, put my arm around her and held her close. Body heat. She felt cold still. "Drink it," I told her. Told her to drink the drink, and I held it for her. Put it in her hands. She didn't want to grip it, so I held her fingers around the mug, held them in place, to get her grip going, to get her used to holding the thing, and to heat up her fingers a little. They were cold. She was sitting there, wrapped in all those blankets, and she seemed so cold. Sitting in all those blankets, all the blankets I had, sitting near the wood stove, trying to keep her warm. I was trying to keep her warm. She wouldn't grab hold of her drink. I held it up to her mouth, but she just sat there staring off into space. I tilted the mug a little, to bring the liquid in contact with her lips. When it hit her mouth, she just freaked. 

I wasn't going to hit her. I didn't plan on that. I never wanted to hurt her. She needed my protection more than anything else in the world, but she just sat there like a damn lump as I did everything in my power to make her safe and comfortable. Even brought her this goddamned drink, and she ... Not only did she let it go to waste, not only did she spill it, she started convulsing and freaking out, like I was the one pouring hot wax down her face. She started bucking and pulling away and her chocolate went right into her lap, into the blankets and her clothes, scalding her. She screamed. Unnecesarily. Screamed she did and pulled back and her drink went down and it burnt her and she knocked my drink down and it had whiskey in it. They both had whiskey in them, and she just fucking flailed about, so I smacked her in the mouth, and held her until she calmed down. It took a while. And all the blankets were wet with goddamned chocolate bullshit.

"Damnit. What the fuck is wrong with you?" I said. I asked. I asked her what was wrong. I told her I needed to help her. I couldn't help her if she wasn't honest and aware. She wasn't doing anybody any good sitting there, perpetuating this whole weird dynamic. "You're going to be fine." I told her. "Just relax. Just relax and lie back, sweetheart. Just relax and let me clean you up again. I'll take care of this. And you've got to be more careful. We don't have any servants or anything around here. We've got to do everything for ourselves. Do you understand?"

I don't think she understood. But I wanted her to. I wanted her to understand what we were dealing with. I looked outside, and the snow had piled up considerably since we arived. About four or six inches clung to the ground now. I put her to bed. I had to.I didn't know what else to do with her. I folded out the couch, to make a little bed there, right by the stove, so we could be a little warmer, though the heat was starting to spread through the house. It might have been fine in the bedroom after a bit. But the doors were closed, trying to keep the space as tight as possible, to contain the temp. I folded down the couch and stripped her clothes off. I stripped my clothes off and lied with her on the bed, holding her body close for warmth. She squirmed a little, and tried to pull away, but she didn't say anything. I thought about making her another cocoa, but after the way she threw that first one aside ... what an insult, I thought. I didn't offer her anything.

"If you want to have cocao in the evenings," I told her, "If you want to have anything nice, you've got to be well behaved. I can't have you throwing our shit on the floor anytime you damn well feel like it. It's gonna be hard enough out here, without you trying to purposefully fuck with everything."

I told her. Told her a couple of things. I told her to behave herself, that there would be consequences. Told her we were there to help her out, to fix her problems, to nurse her back to health. I would happily nurse her back to health, but she had to be a good little girl, or there would be consequences. I held her naked body close beneath the blankets. "You are beautiful," I told her. "Now behave in a manner ... befitting you."

This is going to be wonderful, I said. We've got this place all to ourselves, we could have christmas, if we wanted it. We could have everything she might want. This place was like a magical castle out in the snow. 

Castle? she heard the word. I corroborated the point. She went stiff and cold.

This was a safe haven. Nothing from the outside world could get in. We were like a castle in the wilderness. In the wild. Defended, a haven of protection from the madness of the outside world.

She went stiff, and I held her close just the same. I didn't want her to give in to her darkness. I was there to protect her. To help her. To bring her away from that fucked up and dangerous situation that her home had become. I was there to be with her. To be for her. Whatever I could do for her. Just do this right. Just don't fucking push away, don't spill the damn drinks I bring you. Don't spit out the food. There isn't that much food. Not that much to drink. 

Your father loves you. Your mother loves you, in spite of it all. In spite of this. I'm trying to make the best of it. To take care of you.

---

Norma waited for the police to arrive. They did arrive, much to the raging displeasure of Deborah.

Deborah was cool, collected and sober. She had spent an hour or so inside her husband's studio. Talking with Walter.

Norma sat with Sam in the kitchen. Made her chocolate, which Sam wouldn't touch. Norma brewed her coffee instead, missing the inquisitive, often irritating inquiries that Layla would have made in her place.

When Norma tried to engage her in conversation, the best sort of action she could get was along the lines of:

"Do you think he'll leave her now? To be with me? Now that everyone knows ... we're in love?"

"No, child." Norma shook her head, and Sam began to shake.

---

"How are you going to deal with that girl's parents?" Deborah asked her husband. "What on earth were you thinking? And using Layla to distract me--"

"I didn't--"

"Shut your mouth. I don't think I want to hear from you just yet. Keep your filthy thoughts wrapped up in your filthy, imbecile head. Her parents are coming over. They'll be here ... they're due in what? in forty-five minutes."

The bell rang. The police arrived. Domestic disturbance call.

"Norma! Did you call these bastards?"

Either she called or Manny called, at the height of the escalation. The pinnacle of violent confusion, when the house was filled with shouts and screams. Now silent and strange.

"What do you want?" Mrs. Kryczyk asked the invaders, icy tones encasing her words, under and over. She did not welcome their presence, clearly.

They told her about the call, she didn't want to let them in.

"I don't know who the hell called you, but everything is fine here. Yes. Yes, I had it out with my daughter. She can be quite the demanding little brat, as most children. Willful, obstinate creature. She is ... sensetive. Interrupted me at my work. I most hate being ... interrupted. No. Something about music. Mr. Kryczyk is a pianist. Quite brilliant, actually. Sometimes his playing disturbs our daughter. Rather annoying...."

"There she is," said an officer, as he spotted Sam, poking her head around the corner, coming out of the kitchen, curious to see the police ininquiry.

The officer pushed his way into the house, to talk to the girl. He came in. Mistook her for the daughter. No one corrected him. Norma came close, nearly interrupted, but was stopped by an icy glare from the palace matriarch. Deborah Kryczyk's gaze stopped her cold.

She looked around, nervous, questioning. Deborah nodded encouragement. The other officer took Deborah by the arm and escorted her from the room. Let the girl talk in private.

They had a fight, she said. She knew she mustn't tell about what she and Mr. Kryczyk had done, not specifically. She knew this because of what Mrs. Kryczyk had told her after she smashed open the door and caught them at it.

"Why on earth is this door locked?" she had howled. "Open up this goddamned thing."

Inside they scrambled about. She, lowering her skirts, settling them about her thighs, he reaching for his pants, trying to slip his feet into the holes. He stumbled and fell. Sam let out a gasp, a little shout as he knocked into her, tipping the piano bench, it came crashing down. His forearm extended, thrust into the keys, tried to catch his weight there in on massive cacophonous, dischordant jumble. Accidental chord of injury, and the lid, the key-cover came snapping down, biting the bone on the side of his elbow precisely. He gave a curse and a shout of pain. Tried to stand up, but his feet got tangled in the upturned bench beneath him, tangled with the half-clothed girl at his feet. On her knees, ass up in the air, skirt once again up around her waist, knee-high stockings torn and twisted. Panties pulled up hastily, moist with sweat and sex, they'd rolled as she pulled them on, and only came half-way on, cut a line bisecting her exposed cheeks. 

He swore and fell again, this time backward, away from the piano, and took the bench through the middle of his back. He lay there, elbows propped up on either side by the polished, now scarred, wood, watching Sam's ass wiggle as she tried to free her necklace from the sustenuado pedal.

The tape played on, the struggling sounds of the piece 
<!-- TODO: Sam's theme here -->
he had recorded days previous, hungry with anticipation ... The room thick with sounds of destruction now. The tape, distorting in speed. Walter, flailing about as he fell, caught the flange of the lead reel with his sleeve, somehow pulling the tape from the guide, and entangling it in his cuff-link. 

He lay on the floor, pants half on, propped on the overturned bench, staring helplessly at Sam's milky white ass, marked with his own pink handprint, reaching for it with one hand, thinking nothing, but instinctively reaching to fix the tangled panties, to set them straight. His other hand was bound at the wrist, tied with a shiny brown ribbon that fluttered about him in floating, shifting loops. It led to the tape machine, which tugged at the ribbon still, eating up the slack, slowly tugging until Walter's arm twitched at the pressure, the sound of playback distorted terribly. Speed regulation wheel disengaged from the process, the machine pulled as fast as it might, not registering the movement of the ribbon at all. It sped in, and crept at a crawl when a loop caught, or the tape tugged at Walter's wrist.

The noise was terrible. Echoing resonance from the piano blended with the whimpering gasps and cries of the little girl chained at the neck to the belly of the instrument, with Walter's own pained groans and moans, with his wife's voice, squealing now with drunken rage as she pounded at the door.

"Where's my goddamned ...?" she raged.

The jamb finally split and the door came crashing inward and caught Walter on the side of the head.

---

So, a little bit later, the police arrived, banging on the door and all that. 

They came into the house and mistook Sam for the daughter in the report. Whoever had called in had done so on account of a violent row between mother and daughter. There were screams and all, from upstairs. In the library, they thought.

So when the officers came in and saw Sam there, peering around the corner, they made an assumption. Officer Navarro made the assumption, and his partner, officer McMurtry, never thought to question the assumption. It seemed a simple thing. So they split the mother and the daughter apart, and questioned them a little bit.

Of course, Mrs. Kryczyk had a moment, that brief exchange that occured a little ways back, that exchange we have previously visited, if only in a brief little way, but she made it clear, with a look--a ripe, heavy look. A pregnant look. Mrs. Kryczyk made it clear to Samantha that she was to go along with their mistake. Police were not welcome in the home.

So as Deborah Kryczyk walked away, her arm held just above the elbow in an uncomfortably firm grip. Her arm held by Officer McMurtry as he guided her away, she spoke, ostensibly to McMurtry, but quite loud and adressed to the room at large, making it quite clear to Sam that the words were meant for her more than they were meant for the officer. They were meant to assure their simple explanation of events was cohesive. That they meshed.

The officer tried to lead her deeper into the house, perhaps to the studio, perhaps to the library. McMurtry gestured, held out his arm, indicating that she should lead the way, even though he did not alleviate the pressure he put onto her arm. He still held that tightly in his strong hand. She declined to lead him deeper into the house. Instead, she preferred to guide him out onto the porch. She said as much. 

"I'd prefer it if we just stepped out on the porch," Deborah said. Then, projecting her voice louder and to the room at large, In such a way as to be sure that all could hear her, that Sam would hear her, that Norma would hear her, and that her husband might hear her, though Mr. Kryczyk had not approached the door at the sound of the bell. Indeed, he was still in the studio. What was he doing in the studio? Was he hiding in there? Cleaning up? Ashamed to face the world? Strangers and family members alike?

She projected her voice, speaking not at the top of her lungs exactly, but quite loudly, saying "My daughter is quite excitable, you see. It's all so very simple. I really don't know who called you," she shot a glare at Norma, who lowered her eyes and turned her attention back to the kitchen when she felt the gaze land upon her. "My daughter is quite excitable. Especially when it comes to music. She was working on a piece with her father--who spends far too much time teaching her to play the piano--and she, for some reason wanted to share some astounding achievement. With me! To think. She stormed in to the library and interrupted my work. Knocked some very valluable books onto the floor and overturned my candle. I ... I must say that this whole thing could have been much worse without any need for you to be here. I had very, very stern words with her. And she deserved quite a bit more than stern words, let me tell you. Well, I might have taken her over my knee, but she deserved much more."

They were out on the porch, and McMurtry closed the door.

"That's right. It's quite alright. Now please Mrs ..."

"Much more," she said, speaking to the closed door, speaking through the closed door. "I really was quite lenient with her."

"Have you been drinking, Mrs ..."

"There's no telling how much damage she might have done. Some of those books are very valuable first editions..."

"Excuse me, Mrs ..."

"Oh for heaven's sake, it's Kryczyk. Cry Check. Mrs. Goddamned Kryczyk."

---

Sam's parents came up the drive just as the final questioning came to a close. "What are the police doing here?" Sam's father asked.

Narrow escape on the front porch. If escape it could be considered. Mr. Kryczyk wouldn't come out of the studio. Dinner was off. The library was a disaster. Mrs. Kryczyk handled the whole interaction rather skillfully, efortlessly easing Sam's parent's concerns--of which there were many. If not many, than at least one strong concern. They wanted to know if anyone had been hurt. Their daughter looked disheveled and disturbed, but she didn't suggest any wrong-doing, mishaps or other improper action. She upheld Deborah's story. Layla had a fit. Something about the music she had been playing. The piece she was working on with Mr. Kryczyk.
<!-- TODO: Sam's theme here -->
Layla heard it and had a fit. She ran upstairs and destroyed the library.

No--not totally destroyed, she just tore books off the shelves. I don't know. She made a mess. She interrupted her mother, and made a mess, ruined some of her work, the work that her mother had been doing. The work ... I don't know, whatever that was. I was playing the piano. 

They sure shouted to raise the dead though. Norma must have called the police. I don't know where he went. No. It doesn't look like he's here. I thought he was earlier ... Layla hasn't been down. 

"Oh, she's fine," Deborah said. "I've sent her up to her room. She won't be down until morning. Just needs a little rest is all. This happens every now and again. No, nothing serious. I'm sorry about dinner. We'll have to do this another time. Yes. Next week would be fine. Of course I'll call if there's anything we need. You are such a darling. I'm sorry, once again."

Damned girl. Make me apologize to these ... no matter. Just to cover for your irresponsible behavior. I'll show you what it is to be sorry. To be remorseful. Abuse my trust? Distract me while your father philanders? Damn girl. Of course you were up to something. There has never been a time when you were genuine and personable. Always a performer. Composed and contrived, you could easily sway and lead and amuse conversation with your falsehoods ... an actress, but nothing more, no genuine article. Every time I thought I was getting through to you, every time I thought we were seeing eye to eye, meeting on some shaky ground, coming to some sort of an understanding. Every time I thought I was getting to know you, you were reflecting something back. Something external. Not sharing yourself. There is no self in your case. You, demon child, have no self, no soul. Only reflection. Only illusion. There is nothing to you but the lies you turn out. The copy, the mockingbird, the forger, these are you. No voice of your own, no handwriting of your own, no sign of your own. Easily, too easily, you mimic ... you mimic and you reflect ... you echo the calls of those who have come before, modulating slightly the inflections to suit your own intentions. You live a life of lies. Lies. I will make you pay, when I find you. Manny. Where did he take you?

Let's see what your father has to say about this. Damned willful and emtpy girl. Clever lies. Clever reflections. Clever echoes. I will not fall for your falsehoods again. I will see through your empty horrors. I will find you and you will see ... mock me? Cover for your father's indescretions? Think you are a big girl now, eh? Don't need protection any longer, do you?

Damned girl.

So the police left. Sam's family left. All departed down the dusty evening drive, and left the Kryczyk family behind. Deborah had words with Norma. Norma who had called the police. At first she tried to deny she had made such a call. She tried to blame Manny. He was the one who had taken the girl. He was the one who packed Layla into the car and disappeared down the drive, preceeding the police and preceeding Sam's family by how much? By an hour? By more?

Norma caved in under Deborah's eye. She couldn't resist the gaze. She tried to avert her eyes, and retreated into the depths of the kitchen. "No," she said. "I don't know. Manny. Was it Manny? I don't know. I was here ... in the kitchen."

"Of course you were in the kitchen, but when you heard the commotion from upstairs ... it would have been perfectly natural to feel ... some sort of concern ... some protective drive. To ensure the child's safety, no? You heard the shouting, the clatter of things falling from the shelves, no? You must have been concerned. Concerned enough to call in to the police station. I would have done the same thing in your place. I would have called in to the police station, to someone. Who else could I have called?"

She waited for a moment, leaning against the door frame, leaning on her forearm braced crosswise against the jamb. She stood in a dramatic pose, an overdramatic pose, as if for effect. "Who else could I have called?" she asked again. Again, Norma did not respond. "Norma," Deborah called. "Norma," she said again, more loudly, directing her voice full at the woman, who stood with her nose pointed down into a huge saucepan, a pot, a large silver cylander with two handles, a shining steel cylander with two shining metal loops directly opposite eachother, the whole thing sitting on a low blue-orange flame. "Norma!"

Norma set down the large wooden spoon she held in her shaking hand. She set it down on the counter, it's oval head dripping with deep brown viscous liquid. She didn't spill any of this liquid--no splash upon the solid black granite countertop. Black flecked with gold. She carefully laid the spoon down, it's oval head coming to rest upon a little plate, a little plate with a raised rim. A rim with a little notch out one side, a notch fit perfectly to the handle of the spoon. The spoon went down onto the dish, and Norma raised her head and looked Mrs. Kryczyk in the eye.

Mrs. Kryczyk looked into her, her gray-blue eyes ice piercing through to some deep pained place. Stabbing, slicing, creating the pain, or discovering it? Who can say? Pain was there, at Norma's center, at her heart, near her center, near her heart, if not direcly focused therin. "What else could you have done? I'm sure the sounds were ... terrible. You must have worried for my daughter's safety. For my safety. I would have been terrified. I certainly would have called for help, had our situations been reversed. Had our roles been exchanged. If I had been in your place, and heard such a commotion, heard such terrifying noise from above ... what else could I have done? I would have called for help. I would be worried for the the health, for the well-being of all ... of the family. For the protection of the family. You had no other choice, did you, Norma? You had no choice. There is only one thing to do, in such a case, one thing to do when things get ... out of control. They must have sounded out of control. You must have thought ... the worst." Mrs. Kryczyk's face quivered, weaving a drunken path, oscillating between hatred and disgust. " Oh, dear Norma. Poor thing. Worry. Worry ..."

"I didn't want anyone to get hurt," Norma said. "I was scared. I am scared still...."

Mrs. Kryczyk turned on her heel and left the kitchen at a brisk walk.

Back to the studio. She walked back to her husbands studio, entered, and closed the door behind her. She shut herself into the studio with her husband, and had a few more words with him, clarifying a thing or two....

---

Deborah and Walter cleaned up the mess in the studio together, without sharing many words. A few phrases, here and there, but mostly aimed at the task at hand. Pass me this, where is that, and all and the like.

They moved upstairs and did the same in the library, put it into order, moving slowly, not making much eye contact. Not needing to. They had drinks in hand now. Iced brown liquors in old-fashioned glasses. Ice klinking against glass as they worked, providing a tinkling background of punctuation for the conversation they didn't have. The conversation instead was held between the glasses in their hands. Ice calling out to ice, across the empty, bile-filled space. Like to like. Poison to poison. Alcohol to alcohol. Lover to loved to loved to lover.

Eventually, when things were more-or-less back upon the shelves, the floor was swept, papers sheafed and tucked into folders and filed away or tucked into drawers or wherever they needed to be.... They sat down at the library table. They sat across from each other and began to speak. They began to speak about Manny's absence. About Layla's absence. It might well have been less worrisome if Manny had been the one to call the police earlier. But he hadn't. Norma had called the police, and Manny had packed their daughter into the back of the car and hit the road. Where might he have gone, and why on earth might he have gone there ... wherever there might be.

Likely there would be nothing to worry about. Manny was trusted. Had lived with the family for years. Clearly he had Layla's interests at heart, was concerned for the girl's safety. If anything, he had taken her out because he was concerned for her...

But where might he go? Could they call the hospital and make inquiries? After telling the police their daughter was upstairs in her own bedroom? Hardly. If anything ...

What could they do? They would have to wait a little bit. Surely Manny would surface. Was the girl hurt? Walter wanted to know. 

Of course not, his wife answered. Not really. Of course she wasn't really hurt. Maybe bruised a little. But the damn girl had... 

He might have taken her to a doctor, the hospital or a clinic ... but Deborah didn't think so. She thought it more likely Manny had taken the girl out for a ride, just to ger her out of the house for an hour or two while things cooled off back at home. Took her out on an evening drive. Often Layla liked being in the car ... perhaps the movement of air ... the outside world flashing by the windows ...

---

The Kryczyks sent Sam home with her family, pretending that nothing had happened between Sam and Walter. Deborah took full control of the situation, and intimidated all comers, manipulating expectations and all in such a way as to disarm any other perspectives, any chance for alternate courses of action or any chance for alternate leadership. Not that a struggle for leadership ensued or any such thing. Any mother of a young teenage girl might have acted differently, and perhaps not.

Deborah did take charge, letting Sam know what her position was, what her options were when it came to talking to the police. She informed her, with a minimal amount of communication, indeed, with primarily the use of a nod and a ... not a wink, but rather ... a pointed comment or two. She did not question the girl directly. It was painfully clear to her, what her husband had been up to in his studio, behind a locked door. But she did not explode in violent anger on either her husband, nor the girl her husband had taken as mistress, if mistress were even a title that could be applied to the young thing. To Sam. Mistress connotes a certain type of relationship between consenting adults, thought Deborah....

Deborah only unleashed her rage upon her own daughter. She blamed the girl for acting as a willing participant, as a conspirator, sent to distract her while her husband had his way with the little nymphs he took as students. No wonder he had pushed so hard for the catholic school. No wonder he had pushed so hard to have his daughter enrolled in an all-girl catholic school when she finally did go to school. Goddamned bastard. Slave to his own cock. How must that feel? 

Deborah had often considered the position, Slave to Cock, that is, and daydreamed about what it could mean, what it could be like ... But in her visions, the cock to which she was enslaved invariably belonged to another, to some chivalrous, outmoded poet, to some gentleman of industry or some romantic mode mostly gone by the wayside. She was never slave to her own cock, to some organ within her that dictated her actions and emotions and drives in some fashion that she was utterly unable to comprehend. The visions were of a lust specific that she would give herself over to, place herself in service of the specific lust. There was not the servitude to a lust over which she had absolutely no control. The lust for things destructive to her, lust for the repulsive, repugnant and unwise. The self-destructive lust that tore life apart at its seams by its very presence. There was something she couldn't quite grasp. She knew it was there, she understood that there was a difference between the two modes, between lusting for the known, forbidden entity on the one hand, and being driven by a random and unforgiving, by a lust cruel, even. A lust that targetted the least appropriate subjects. This was dissease, this was the criminal libido at work. This was desire unmitigated, uncontrollable, at its worst, tearing life apart. 

She knew a difference between the lust for some romantic ideal, however beyond the limits of current social contract, and lust for despicable entities and actions, lust that plummed the very depths and darkest places of the human experience, and drove someone to do terrible things, to do things without reason, for the proposed love of the very things that disgust one on an intellectual level. The short circuit, self-destructive bent of the sex drive, asserting its dominance over the rational self.

She instinctively knew something of the difference between, even if she never pursued the thoughts, even if she never acknowleged in some deep level....

She saw her husband as victim, to at least an extent. She knew something of her husband's affliction. To be cursed with an overwhelming desire for that which destroyed the self...

There is a line in the Portrait of an Artist as a Young Man, a moment in which Stephen comes to recognize a rebellion within himself, when he faces an overwhelming urge to sin and lay his own spiritual foundations to waste.

<!-- TODO: Joyce -portrait. There is a quote, something about the soul craving its own destruction. Has a place here. -->

Deborah, in this case, places--through her actions at least, though her words may prove otherwise--little emphasis upon her husband, in terms of culpability for the situation. She sees him as vulnerable and weak in this case. Unable to resist the wiles of seductive young girls, of homewreckers, destroyers who are driven to know their fathers....

She instead placed blame directly onto Layla. Blamed her for bringing that other girl into their home, blamed her, most of all, for acting as a diversion, acting as a knowing accomplice to infidelity, by directly distracting Deborah when indescressions were being carried out in the studio at home. Sam, she walked in on. How many others were touched in this same manner? How many of his students did the man despoil?

Damned Layla. Her actions, her words. She manipulated Deborah, encouraged her to bring out inner emotions and experiences. She kept Walter's activities covered up, kept them secret. When it seemed likely that Deborah would discover the infidelities, when she insisted on visiting her husband--who had been estranged for quite some time, in many ways--the girl had gone out of her way to ensure that no such interruption occured. She stormed into Deborah's office, into the library, and tried to mop up her mother's attention. To keep her from seeing the truth. To keep her from seeing what has happened ... to keep her from discovering Walter in bed with a younger woman. A rediculously younger woman. With a waif, a nymph. Damned Layla, inserting her own judgements where they didn't belong. Hiding things that were not her right to hide or to divulge. She placed everything squarely upon Layla's shoulder's, and she hated her for it.

The worst of the matter was the issue of betrayal. The feeling of loss. Layla had recently, for the first time ever, been opening up to her mother, or so Deborah thought. 

They had shared such tender moments in the library. They had shared humor and intellect and poetry and litterature. All quite lovely. For the first time in her life, the mother was beginning to feel that there might be hope for a relationship between her and her daughter, she was beginning to have hope that there was something greater to ther girl. Her fears were finally starting to melt away, and she was enjoying her daughter's company. Her daughter, who had been such a burden and an anomaly, who had been so unreachable. So distant ... she had started to open up. They began to find common ground between them, the two. Common ground to share, and for once, to build an honest and intense relationship. Deborah had dreamed of such an occasion, of such an opportunity, and here it was, here it finally was...

To discover that this new and blossoming relationship, this thing coming to life right before her eyes... to discover that it was alll a sham, was quite a shock for Deborah. 

She should have known, of course, but she did not. She had failed to pick up on the verbal or social cues that were present ...

Her own familial relationships skewed and off-kilter. Her impressions fueled by drought and poverty rather than success and alternate visions...

For her daughter to use her. To use Her. Of all people, to violate the trust so recently created. The relationship they had was a lie. A lie told by her husband to discourage her from influencing ... for what? Lies. Her daughter played a part, she manipulated emotional content and conversation.

Her daughter lied to her. She betrayed her. The fast-growing, caring start-up was a lie. A lie built to cover her husband's infedelities. That and nothing more.

<!-- NOTE: the Kryczyks - relationship and history -->

Betrayal cut her to the bone, to use a tired turn of phrase. She focused her anger, her rage upon her daughter. The husband? His behavior was undesirable, reprehensible, disgusting even, but to be expected in some degree. She would punish him, sure. She lived her life punishing him, day in and day out. She cut a large swath of punishment through her life, attacking his vulnerabilities, his tender spots. 

<!-- TODO: examples of how deborah (?) pushes walter's buttons. she kicks him in the tender spots - what are those tender spots?  A good question deserves a good answer, even if an eliptical one. -->


This was an ongoing concern between them. A veritable dynamic intrinsic to their relationship. Quietly antagonistic. Throughout the passing of events previous, such subtle barbs as they would sting each other with flew back and forth between them, crept to and fro in conversation and action. Their lack of conversation, their discussions, disagreements about people who had passed previously through their lives. An older son, perhaps? As a wealthy philanthropic couple, programs they were involved in, scholarships of the arts. He supporting musicians, she poets. Theorists and English majors. 

At home, theological discourse. The nature of existence. 

"The world, the universe, everything we can see and feel, the totality of existence is made up of vibrational energies." Walter said. "Tonal forces at work, harmony and melody. Matter is but waves moving through the ether. Even the latest theories of physics ... on the smallest level ... strings if they want to say, as they are wont to say ... vibrating at different frequencies, make up all matter and non-matter. Everything is made of one substance, vibrating at different frequencies. The nature of a thing is determined by its tonal content. Do you see? Harmony and interplay between different tonal forces. Melody is play ... is change across time. Melody is time. Melody is the force, is the progression of forces that allows the perception of time to occur."

"Time is nothing," Deborah said in response, interrupting the flow of her husband's oration. "In the begining was the word, as you well know. Metaphor is the language of the soul. Symbols, analogies, dream, the stuff of poetics. What we see, all that we see and perceive, all that is, is nothing more than a projection from within. We thrust upon the neutral substance of the world that which we can understand. It reflects back at us. As a mirror, it reflects that which is within. Of course you see the universe as music, for this is the only way in which such a world can make sense to you. You cannot comprehend a world operating on a different principle. You're internal framework, the understanding you have built up within yourself, the only way you truly can understand the interaction of seperate elements is through the methods and systems of music. The way anything ... your internal framework, your models of understanding are all based on musical models, therefore, when you look out into the world, the great mirror reflects such things back upon you..."

"So obviously, according to your own hypothetical understanding, the same thing is at work for you as is at work for me. The poetic symbolic language of the soul, as you put it, the language of the universe, is nothing but an extension of your own inner workings and musings. You are no more correct than am I, according to your own perspective."

"Yes. Sure. This may be the case, and you are pointing out nothing new. I am aware of such a thing. The fact of the matter, the objective nature of things, is ... beyond fact, beyond objectivity. It is beyond the scope of human understanding, beyond the capacity of the intellect, such as it is, in such form as which we can express it, anyhow. And yes. The world that I see is a projection of my own incomplete understanding in such a way ... in much the same way as the world you see is a projection of your own incomplete understanding. The major difference is that in my understanding ... my model, my understanding is comprised of the underlying unknowability of all. Of phenomenal manifestation as a whole. My model, the internal mechanism through which I filter the universe and try to make sense of it, is one of analogy, metaphor and substitution. I know that what I see is an incomplete representation of something greater, presented in such a way as to allow me to perceive a small part of the works, a small part of the relationships. Kant says--was it Kant? I believe so--something along the lines of, in order to comprehend the mystical, the nature of things,
<!-- TODO: Kant? metaphorical relationships to aid in the comprehension of the unknown. A is to B as C is to D. Where A is an unknown, a complete unknowable, B is a known, and C and D are knowns with a known relationship.check this out. Get into the books, sort this out. -->
, A is to B as C is to D. Where A is an unknown, a complete unknowable, B is a known, and C and D are knowns with a known relationship. Do you see? Do you know what I am saying? No? You are to the Universe as the musical note C is to a C major seventh chord in the middle of some symphony. So yes, my understanding is as personal and incomplete as yours, yet my understanding is based on that nature. It is based on the core incomplete nature of that understanding. It is in fact, the cornerstone of my whole understanding."

And so on and so forth. This is the type of conversation they would typically share. Though the topic would not always be so abstract or esoteric. They often would discuss the news, certain personages in the public eye, arguing different perspectives on whatever they touched upon. Sometimes Walter felt as if he took up a position solely based upon the antagonistic relationship with his wife it held. Deborah did the same, taking it as a matter of course. She often didn't know how she felt about a subject until she heard her husband state a point of view.

Walter would argue a point whether he believed in it or not, solely for the purpose of opposing his wife in dialogue, but Deborah instinctively and vehemently believed the opposite of Walter's stated position. Hearing him voice an opinion crystalized the opposite concern within her.

Walter made it his goal to retread ground, and creep in to a position previously advocated by his wife, in order to watch her tear apart her own previously argued for views. Mostly she caught him at the attempt and called him out, claiming he was weak-willed or fickle, but sometimes Walter would succesfully creep into the territory previously held by her. He would take the castles she built while she was away. Out on a hunting trip, or laying seige to some illusory fort, some flimsy construction Walter had created in the mountains in order to distract her, some cardboard fortress designed to look threatening, but without substance to back it up. 

He would inhabit her previously fortified position, but paint the walls some other color, thinly disguise the fortress so that she would not recognize it. So when Deborah returned from her succesful seige, a little elated at the ease of her victory, a little disappointed at the same time--for the argument looked like it would have been a good one, just as she was getting ready to really lay into him, the position crumbled away into nothingness, leaving her feeling a little flat too--she came back at Walter's new position rearing to tear him down, ready for action and destruction. So the painted castle of her own previously inhabited argument went unrecognized. She laid out the catapaults, the trebuchets, all the seige engines. Brought out the cannons, the big guns, the battering rams and all, and laid her full force out onto the thing.

Walter took great delight, as the fortress began to crumble, in pointing out to her that it was her own castle she had destroyed. She had pulled down the walls of her own argument under a vicious onslaught. He delighted in the occasions in which he was able to do this. It took, of course, great preparation, and much eliptical oration. He would have to talk around in circles, appearing to hold a point of view without really saying anything definitive, creeping moment by moment into her position as he lead her further and further from it.

They avoided each other most of the time, locking themselves away in their respective lairs. Walter in his studio, Deborah in her library. Working on their own personal aspirations. Walter in composition and instruction. Composing what he believed to be his masterpiece, his opus magnum. Never ending. Project without end. World without end. Without borders or containing walls or fences or anything at all to restrict progress. Lost in details, he struggled on an on, ever expanding and ever contracting, honing in on microscopic details of macrocosmic proportrion. Music of the spheres encapsulated in a phrase, in a harmonic interval, in the voicing of one specific instrument in relation to another. The stack of manuscript pages piled higher and higher, the wastebasked filled with crumpled papers, overflowed onto the floor. Work unending, completion elusive.

He took on tutees, worked endlessly in devising curriculum. Exercises and theoretical instructions to pass on. Instruction distracted from the completion of his work. He focused instead on his students, telling himself that he was still working on the opus. Tender spot with the old lady. She would tease him about his failure to produce anything new, tease him for being tangled in bramblous mire of tanglousness.

But the truth of it was, her own work fared no better. She slaved day in and out in her library, cross-referencing poets and philosophers and theologians and mythologists and critics and essayists and dramatists, collating arguments and data and verse and prose and references ... to what avail? She had forgotten even the purpose of her work. Was she creating a collection of poetry, vast and deep and informed by the highest level of thinker, by the best minds the written word had to offer? Yes, perhaps. Was she creating a collection of criticism? some theoretical construct, an argumentative dissertation, an encyclopedic companion to poetry and thought in the post-modern, or post-post-modern era? Yes? Perhaps.

They each sat in isolation, working slavishly, yet unable to succeed in their ventures, unable to admit to the other that their efforts were lost, were in vain, were spiraling out of control.

Had not always been this way. When they were young, they worked together, their love was bright and strong as their conversation, conversation that fuelled and inspired them. They would look for weak points in eachothers perspectives, not to tear down the palaces, but to shore them up. To make each other stronger, to share strenghts between them.

Since their daughter. Their willful, strange daughter. Their daughter that could not hear her father's music, her father's piano without collapsing into a convulsive fit of horrors, their daughter who had no mind for metaphor or poetics, their lawyering, legislative, literal-minded, stubborn freak of a child.

Each retreated, blamed the other. Let the nanny take care of her. Home schooling was the best way, keep her from the public eye, at least for a while. High school years came along, and they conferred--they did so on occasion--and sent her to the convent. Sacred Heart, of course. Sent her into the wider, if limited world.

But things had not been the same since. Their daughter changed them. Changed the life between them, the dynamics, they pulled apart. The differences that had once drew them together, made them complementary, now forced them apart, repelled them instead.

When Manny disappeared with their daughter. When the police arrived on their doorstep to find a girl weeping in the kitchen, to find the amorous nymph-child with whom Walter had been cavorting rather than acheive any real productive work--when the police arrived, Deborah and Walter Kryczyk pulled together in a way they had not pulled together in years. The small misunderstanding, the little mistake made by officer Navarro was allowed to pass, was accepted and amplified.

The mistake, Officer Navarro mistaking Sam, the lust-addled and abused nymph, for Layla, for the daughter--the reason for the call--was accepted. Deborah ensured that Sam would play along.

Deborah and Walter fell into step, worked together in harmony for the first time in many long years.

---

<!-- How did this happen, and what were some of the ways in which they worked together? The point here would be to illustrate them interacting in a habitual manner, much as they habitually had been at eachother's throats, but now settling into a more productive method of interaction instead. Instead of the hostility, instead of the seige warfare of their previous workings, they immediately and without discussion settle into a truce, operating with an increased partnership and amiability. When an issue arose, as the issue arose, the issue of their daughter, the issue of Manny, they behaved instinctively in a harmonious way.  -->

<!-- Not in such a way as to indicate a change, not to imply that the issue caused them to change their ways. On the contrary, the cooperation is a deeper level, a constant running through their lives, not often seen. The situation only brought the condition to the surface, and allowed us to se that they are still committed to each other, that their fighting and bickering and warring are not signs of a relationship lost, or some doomed and terrible thing, but more naturally the state of their union, the simple method and expression of their marriage. Joining in closer harmony when the opportunity is there.  -->

They dismissed the police, after diffusing their brief inquiry, they placated Sam's parents, who were concerned about the tearful state of their daughter and also concerned about the presence of police at the Kryczyk house.

Sam, as shaky as she was, understood and fell in line. Some way to represent her as motivated to keep the charade in play.

Would her parents have discovered the affair with her tutor, surely it would be the end of her apprenticeship, the end of the affair, which she was still rather hopeful about.

"You couldn't handle ... as he really is. The full force of his attentions. He would break you down into dust without the slightest effort."

Outsiders dismissed, the couple cleaned up the mess in the studio, cleaned up the mess in the library, and sat down together over a late late meal, served up by Norma, remains of the dinner intended for earlier in the evening.

As one of the few occasions for a formal or semi-formal dining experience in the houshold, when Sam's family was set to be guests, Norma prepared meals, not necessarily more elaborate, but more momentous than 'usual' none the less.

Beef bourguignon.

Settled around the kitchen table with cuts of steak and thick brown sauce and sauteed, stewed vegetables. Pearl onions and little carrots and mushrooms and mushrooms and mushrooms.

Discussing some plan, some sparkle of excitement in their eyes at the opportunity to act in the face of some affront or annoyance.

---

Turning the eye upon Nancy. There is a certain progression to occur within him, if he is to have any place in this affair at all.

From accepting of role handed out, the assigned path, the expected. Following the mother's intent. Taking what is prepared without the need for struggle to assert his own will or to find his own path. From a philosophical / spiritual position based more firmly in the east. That is to say, the highest acheivement possible for him is to embody the position he is in to its fullest potential. To be what he is, to take what is offered, to be satisfied with his lot. Not to want. To give up desire.

Or ... a different attitude toward desire. Aphrodite's call is a part of the initial position, his station, his given roll. The nymphs call to him, offering the typical romantic path. Union with the feminine forces.

Again and again Nancy had found himself in this position, but a certain resistance wells up within him when faced by the spectre of romantic commitment. In an attempt to excercise his individual will, his own path, rather than accept the call of the Great and Terrible Mother, he resisted each of these women. For whatever reason, usually by some function far below the conscious operation, he found them to be repulsive in some way, or imperfect in some way, or pushed them away by his lack of willingness to accept and encourage or even recognize another individual.

In an attempt to exercise his individuality, to resist the offered path, to break from some vaguely percieved cycle of womb and grave and birth and death, he resisted the overtures of each nymph in turn, attempting to strike out into the wild at a place where none had struck before.

He evolved his intention, his perspective. Modulated his position.

Moved from passive acceptance into conscious rebellion. Though even initially, he had displayed resistance to that passivity. Without knowing it, without a conscious level of awareness, he spurned the relationships as they approached a point of real involvement. And not only with romantic relationships. Nancy went about life doing the easy thing. Taking the offered job and following the path of least resistance, making the obvious choice, or no choice at all ... and fucking it up when things started to look like a routine.

He took what came easy, and in many ways lived a blessed life, for much came easy to him. But this always inspired some deep inner loathing. An instinctive drive for independence, for some alternative, for some path that required choice and effort and labor drove him to destroy the easy solutions after adopting them.

In seeking out an alternative path, in striving for independence, Nancy looked within himself. Turned his attention to his memories, his dreams and his visions. Why had the castle, the artificial Christmas Castle begun to appear in his dreams, and then later, his memories? A strange situation, to be sure, but there must be some reasoning for it. Nancy looked to his thoughts, journalled copiously, filled notebooks with poetry and metaphors and diagrams and equations. Looking for patterns within him and patterns without him, he looked for answers, looked for guidance, looked for some alternative method, some alternative path. Was there something he could engage himself with, some goal to work for, some way to break free of the things that pulled him down. The details and relationships and the demands on his life and time that filled the days, the demands that fileted his days, overwhelmed him and weighed him down. There must be some way to be free of them, he told himself. There must be some way to find independence. I am tired of the easy way, the obvious way. 

And so he was, and he looked elsewhere. He looked within. 

He looked for patterns everywhere, looked for meaning in each encounter, in each random happenstance by the side of every road, he looked to find meaning and mission. What could he do to escape. He felt fate closing in on him. Hot pursuit. The police were after him for the fire, for the death he left behind. He had left the body bleeding out onto the studio door and fled. Now he was pursued by avenging angels, by furies, by police and drug dealers. Maddening niggling thoughts chased him throughout his past and his future, and always as he ran, he ran into the Christmas Castle. Sometimes he could get past the bridge and onto the grounds of the castle proper, but he could not get inside. What lay in there? Why did his pursuers always chase him there?

Nancy spent a week in a Salvation Army center. Shared a room with a crazed old junky who was working in the kitchen, part of a rehab program. They had to be up and out on the street by seven thirty. Took a little toll on Nancy, or took a little adjustment. He didn't drink or shoot or smoke anything but cigarettes while he was there. Drank tons of coffee. 

They'd lie awake at night, he and the junky, talking. The junky was black. Named Terry. He had a high voice. Not squeaky, but just pitched up there pretty good. Feminine, a little disconcerting. Subtle though. Not an overwhelming oddity. Just a little quirk, a strangeness to the speech. Round rimless glasses. Two perfect discs, separated by a short length of shaped steel. High cheekbones. Nancy had to imagine all this, for the lights went off at ten. Lights went off at ten, and came back on at five thirty. Nothing to do about it. They'd lie there in the dark, talking real quiet. Most of the rooms were empty. Terry and Nancy shared one, another guy in a room down the hall. They kept them together for support and company. Generally worked better with company. The guy down the hall didn't want company. Didn't like niggers, Terry said. Didn't like anybody. Worked better just on his own.

Nancy poked his head out into the hall, and saw a little light flickering beneath the door to the bigot's room.

"He's in there reading with a flashlight, I guess," said Terry.

Nancy tiptoed back over to the bed and swept his legs up and under the covers. "Didn't mean to wake you," he said.

"You didn't," said Terry.

They talked most nights, softly. Terry didn't seem to sleep much. 

Nancy tried to stay awake and hold up his end of a conversation on the first night or two, but he just couldn't keep it up forever. He fell asleep eventually, but Terry just kept talking. 

It didn't bother Nancy. He found Terry's high-pitched voice to be rather soothing, and once he realized that Terry didn't mind if Nancy fell asleep, he just let himself go when the feeling overtook him. He'd drift in and out of wakefulness, catching bits and pieces of narrative as his mind drew focus on it in the dark. He'd talk back when the feeling struck him, interrupting Terry to ask a question or two, to make an occasional point. Terry would respond as if the conversation had been going on in the most natural manner. Nancy even wondered if he might have been conversing in his sleep, keeping up the conversation without even realizing it on a conscious level.

The talk seemed to calm Nancy. When Terry slept in the bed opposite, and talked through the night, Nancy didn't dream. Or, he didn't remember his dreams at least. He woke up refreshed instead of panicked. The castle didn't make appearances ... he didn't seem to have the pursuers so hot on his tail. He slept, even if Terry didn't. Whatever time Nancy's eyes snapped open, he heard Terry's voice skating along near the ceiling. Nancy raised his head to look at the little travel alarm on the bedside table. Whatever the time. No matter how near either lights out or lights on, Terry would be talking away, hands folded behind his head as he looked up and the ceiling and talked. And talked.

"You'll be fine, so long as you don't ever get to know yourself," Terry said. "I mean really know yourself. You'll be fine ... just don't look to deep. Those waters are liable to pull you under."

* * *

During this stay, Nancy slowed his flight. Conversations with Terry caused him to be more introspective. He couldn't take Terry's advice, couldn't resist the draw of his own internal waters. 

Why not look within? he asked himself. Could getting to know himself really be a bad thing? Could such a thing be detrimental?

What was in the castle? Why did it increasingly hound him, showing itself in places he logically knew it couldn't be, couldn't have been. He pictured it in places it didn't belong, but why?

It got to the point, to a point. He pictured it. It filled the eye of his mind. He would have to make a concerted effort, sometimes, to remind himself that it was an illusion, an aspect of his memory and nothing more. He would get up at night, and Terry would keep talking, softly, without remarking or commenting particularly on Nancy's behavior. Nancy would fold back the blankets and stand, would walk over to the window and stretch open a gap in the venetian blinds. He'd bring up his sleep-heavy hand and let its weight settle onto a horizontal strip of metal and drag the thing down into a dark V with an audible crinkling sound.

It would be a surprise, a shock, not to see the blue-painted plaster spires there in the parking lot. He knew there should, there could be no such structure out there. It had no place in the parking lot, no crew came to build it, working nightly to create the fortress, the castle to protect the dreams and fantasies of the innocent. He knew the parking lot would be empty. He knew there was no castle, save that in his memory. But as his memory spread, the reproductions, the false occurrences became clearer, stronger, more definite. They rivaled the original, until Nancy wondered if there really was an original experience. Or which experience was the initial, instigating factor. Like staring down a hall of mirrors, the castle reflected back upon itself infinitely. When ever he tried this in the real world, standing between two parallel mirrors, the mirrors all reflected the reality of him--with some distortions of size, scale, distance, or what not--he was not able to remove his hand and continue to watch the reflection cast back and forth. But he imagined this to be possible. His own flesh was too slow. That was the only problem. If he could instantly--Instantly--remove the hand, the reflection would continue. A reflection of a reflection only, and reflections then of this. The real incident faded into the past, faded into nothingness, yet its shadow remained. He could not acheive such a result in his experiential, phenomenal experience, yet he thought it to be possible, somehow. He knew it to be possible.

Approaching the blinds, he knew that there would be no castle in the parking lot, but he simultaneously knew that it would be there. Inexplicably looming in the forlorn glow of the streetlamps. 

He felt like ... the cat in the box. The universe turned inside out, so that outside, the castle, the world both existed and did not, waiting in limbo, in some purgatorial state, waiting for the blinds to be drawn, waiting for Nancy to peer through the blinds.

He'd bend down a little, and let the weight of his hand pull the metal strips down into a V. When the krinkling sound hit, Terry stopped his monologue and asked "Is it there?"

"No, just the lot." Nancy watched the light rain or heavy mist swirling around under the light of the streetlamp. "Just the empty lot," he said, feeling somewhat relieved. He turned and walked back toward the bed. As soon as he let the blinds go, the feeling of relief melted away, for the certainty crept back into him. The castle was there, waiting, just out of sight. Every time he looked, gone. Safe. Nothing. But when he turned away, he knew it was there. If he was feeling particularly agitated, he would get up again and again to look out the window. Satisfied as to the absence of the Christmas Castle, he'd let the blinds pop closed and go back to bed. Another fifteen or twenty minutes would pass, and he'd be back at the window, peering out. Melting away the construct.

"Why don't you leave them open?" Terry asked. "I don't mind. You can see from bed. Without getting up."

"No," said Nancy. "Thanks, though. It will just move. It'll be somewhere else. And at least ... out there ... its still ... out there. If I can see everything, will it turn up where I can see it? I don't think I'm ready for that. I don't think I am ready to find that out."

So he left the blinds closed, and they stayed up most of the night, talking quietly. Nancy drifting into the occasional doze, standing up now and again to look out the blinds when he woke up, carrying on the strange ongoing conversation that they held in the space between them, talking of the future, of fate and desire and the past. Only as a concept, did they talk about the past, or as to how it might inform the future. They didn't hold back, necessarily, but they didn't pry into each other's histories or any such thing. They occasionally shared something. Nancy shared a bit more. But this wasn't a confessional.

At first, Terry had thought Nancy to be a simple paranoid. He knew what it was like to be kicking in a strange place. He didn't push it, but he didn't take much of an interest in Nancy. Sure, he talked. That's what Terry did best. Talk. About the future. And other things. He certainly talked himself into the future. Was fine with that. Liked to have some company to listen, to listen to every now and again.

It wasn't until he realized what Nancy was looking for that he really began to take an interest in Nancy.

Nancy let the blinds drop, crept back into bed and pulled the covers up to his chin.

"I once worked in a mall," he said. "Not like a regular day-job in some store. Just for a week. For about a week. I came in with a small crew, we did graveyard shifts. Built a castle in the courtyard. It was winter. Christmas approaching, you see. The castle was the place where ... Santa and all his elves would hang out, kids would come visit, tell him what they wanted, all that. You know what I mean?"

"Like in that movie. A Christmas Story. Like that?"

"Yeah. Like that. This one didn't have a slide, but it was a couple of stories tall. You could climb around up inside it. There were little walkways and all. It took a couple of days to build it. To put the thing together. Just had to unload the truck. All these sections were shrinkwrapped on pallets. Forklift took 'em down. We wheeled 'em in on pallet jacks, cut the wrap off, peeled 'em and stacked em up together, tightened the bolts that held it all. I mean, some pieces were bigger than others, some odd. They didn't all fit on neatly wrapped pallets is all. But we built this thing over a few nights. Just came in when everyone else was gone. Listened to music on the boombox, ate pizza and whatever. Built this thing up. I didn't really think much of it after. We took it down about a month later, I guess. Loaded it back on the truck, it went back to the prop-yard. Probably to stay there until the next year, when it would go right back where it had been. Like I said, I didn't think much about it. Done. That was that. But lately ... that castle's been on my mind."

"You've been thinking about Christmas, maybe? The holiday in an empty mall?"

"I don't know. I mean, I don't really think so. It's just.... Maybe. The damn thing is following me around. It started showing up in memories where it didn't belong. I remember learning to ride a bike. My dad letting go of the seat, and I just kept peddling. Right around the Christmas Castle. I went over the little draw-bridge and all. Of course this didn't happen in the mall. Of course this happened years before I had ever seen the damned Christmas Castle. But whatever. I thought 'sort of weird,' right? Let it go. I know the truth in that. No castle in the original memory. I mean ... I can tell it doesn't belong. So ... no big deal. Just a little strange, I guess. But then it started to happen more. Different memories, all incorporating the damned Christmas Castle. It gets now so that, if I think too much about it, I start to question all the other stuff too. I mean, like. What if that's not how I learned to ride a bike at all? What if it was some other guy, not my father, with his hand on the seat? What if it was ... you know ... an 'uncle' that wasn't really an uncle at all. What if I don't really know how to ride a bike, even. Why is it moving through my past? I feel violated, a little. It's watched me in places ... I lost my virginity in there ... personal moments. It's watching me. And that's the thing. I could take a little of this flexible memory shit. I don't mind a little creative subconscious alteration to the past. I don't really believe in a complete objective version of the past anyhow. It's all about your own experience, your own filters.

"I don't know. It's weird, right? But at the same time ... no big deal. So, I'm obsessed with a Christmas Castle, with this thing I once built. I mean ... there's worse things to be obsessed with, I'm sure. And it's in my dreams too, right? I'll have what seems like a normal dream, whatever. Hanging out with some girls by a marina somewhere. In this huge house right on the waterfront. I start making out with this girl, and the house starts to shake and then ... it's sinking. Not like right down to the bottom of the sea. But like ... an earthquake, and the corner of the house drops down, part of the ground eroded into the water. So we're in this house, which is now leaning at some odd angle, though the furniture stays in place. And there's glass everywhere. Not broken glass. I remember thinking how amazing that nothing broke, with all the shaking. Everything is white. Cabinets full of china. Very fine looking china. The windows are open, white curtains billowing in the breeze. White glass vases with lilies. The flowers are glass too. Big potted plants, leaves and flowers all glass. Nothing broken though. We step out through the window, onto the roof, which used to slant pretty steep, but now, it's almost flat. Like a balcony. We step out onto it, and it's just about sunset. The sky orange and pink and intense. The roof is only five or six feet above the ground now, and we step out, we're looking at the sky, and there it is. The Christmas Castle is about thirty or forty yards from shore, out on the water. I don't know. I wake up around then. And it's in other dreams too. I don't know what it's doing there. Just shows up, like it's watching me. Sometimes little ... goblins and shit come out of it and come after me, but sometimes, but mostly, it just sits there and ... I want to say 'watches.' It watches me.

"And it's not just in memories and dreams. I ... I don't actually see it, but I ... I know it's out there, in the parking lot. I mean ... I know it's not actually in the lot, but at the same time, I know that it is. I look out there, and I'm surprised to see that the lot is empty. Surprised and relieved, because ... yes. I know the lot's empty, and now I see that. My vision confirms it. But at the same time, as soon as I look away. I know it's out there. Not that it's playing hide and seek or something. It's not out there. I see that. I know that. It would be impossible. But none of that really convinces me of it's absence. It's kind of fucked up, I know."

"I've heard of more fucked up things," said Terry. "I mean ... it's not so bad, really. Sort of a benign structure. You are haunted by a benign holiday structure. Fascinating, actually...."

* * *

<!-- Coming into the last leg of this thing, it must become necessary to begin to wrap some of the strands together. The two strands should begin to twine together, if indeed they do so. -->

<!-- The idea is sound. The point, the crux of the tale is to revolve around the two. They meet, and through their dialogue and interaction, the rest can unfold. What if this Salvation Army facility is more of a hospital or general rehab center. Salvation Army institutions like this-in my experience-are limited to all-male clientelle. If clientelle could be considered the correct word for such a thing.[^fn17] -->

<!-- TODO: find a coed parallel to a Salvation Army rehab center. Or is this calling for the Seven Oaks?-->

Manny kept Layla for a few days, for a week. Kept her at the cabin, cared for her, and plied her with his amorous intentions. He had always loved her, since she was a child. Never mind that she was a child still. He could understand her. Was sure that no one else ever would. The things he could do for her that no one else could. But Layla did not respond as Manny hoped she would. He hoped to bring her out of her stupor with his care and concern, and fun-loving ways. He was filled to the brim with music and entertainment and festivity. His personality bubbled with joyous expression and booze. He was certainly a little bit of a lush. He brought booze, fixed drinks for her. Played records of music she had loved. She thought no one noticed when she heard musics she loved, but someone did. Manny noticed.

She used to skulk around by the gate house, listening outside the window as Manny played records inside, dancing around or lifting weights or playing guitar along with the records, doing whatever it was that Manny was inclined to do in there. 

Layla thought that her enjoyment of the records was a secret that no one ever knew ... Layla's enjoyment of the records was a secret that she shared with Manny alone. She was terrified of what her father would think. She did not want him to think that it was something personal, something about him specifically that made her ill, listening to him play the piano. She didn't want Walter to think it was some personal affront. Her father's life was music. To think that she couldn't listen to his music, but could love others ... It was a thought that terrified Layla. She didn't want to hurt her father. She thought it could injure his pride. So she didn't tell him that there was some music she could hear and actually enjoy.

Her father went on thinking that they had little or nothing in common. He went on thinking that she had no place for music within her. But she did have such a place within her. And she kept that place sectet from him, kept secret from her father that one passion that they shared, that one thing that might have brought them together, instead pushed them apart, because Layla was unable to listen to her father play the piano without collapsing into a quivering, horrified mass, overwhelmed by nightmare visions.

Now, Manny played some of the classic rock records he knew her to love. He played them on the little portable compact disc player he had picked up at the travel center on the way up here. He played such discs as he was able to find at that same travel center. The Eagles greatest hits. A Bonnie Rait collection. Los Lobos. Just a couple of these cheesy danglers.

But Layla didn't respond. If anything, if possible, she withdrew further into herself. She was a wreck the first night, assuredly, but the next day, she showed some good sign of improvement, seemed ready to head out, to go back home perhaps, or on to some destination. Manny played her music, and danced around, and talked to her light heartedly about old times and funny moments they had shared. He put on a compact disc and cracked open a case of beer, offered her one, which she took without complaint or enthusiasm.

He tried to engage her enthusiasm, to encourage her participation, to inspire her love, but none of his efforts yeilded much avail.

She eventually spoke to him, but only in repeating things he had told her. She would echo parts or all what he said back to him, and nothing else. Sometimes she would seem to be doing so intelligently, modifying meaning, and selecting bits and pieces of his words to generate new content or thought, and sometimes she would seem to be doing so in an entirely automatic and neurotic manner.

Manny tried, with increasing desparation, to inspire her, to bring her back into the waking world of consciousness and to woo her, but to no avail. She just couldn't open up. She could, in fact, do much less for herself than she had usually (previously) been able. The situation grew darker and darker, as it grew more apparent that Manny's love was a little bit sick, a lot bit desperate, completely hopeless and unreturned.

* * *

<!-- Perhaps we could expand a little in this place, move in to a closer view. Get back within Layla's head, or at least behind her eyes, as she observed Manny's increasing desparation in the face of his unrequited and shameful lust.  -->

She watched, uncomprehending, or unresponding, as his behavior become stranger and stranger.

He took care of her, kept a fire going, kept the place warm, cooked for her.

"I ain't no Norma," he said. "But I can do a thing or two with a skillet." He could. And he did. A couple of big scrambles in the mornings. Onions, sausage, mushrooms, zuchinni, chopped asparagus, with bell peppers and eggs and all that. Quarters of chicken, rubbed with rock salt and rosemary, cubed potatoes cooked in bacon grease in the same skillet. Bacon crumpled and broken up, sprinkled over the whole works.

Layla barely touched the food. She ate some, but her apettite diminished with each passing day. The more he worked at pleasing her pallete, the less she took in, the more she wasted away. Some bizzare and perverse relationship inverse between effort and effect.

Poor thing, he thought. If she didn't eat ... if her appetite didn't pick up ... if her attitude didn't improve, if she didn't show some signs of engagement....

He came back up the drive, behind the wheel of a pickup truck. An old deisel beast, loud and rattling, red paint faded behind an opaque haze of powdered milk, rust showing in places where the paint was at its thinnest. The Lincoln rested behind the cabin, under a powder blue car cover of generic proportional attributes. Fit a little funky, but generally smooth cover. Manny'd taken a few days to get the old pickup running. He worked on it out in the yard after that first storm passed over. Shoveled away the snow to clear a little work zone. Layla watched from the window. Ointment glistening on her blistered lips. Manny gave her a smile, waved to her, but she withdrew, let the musty old purplish curtain fall back into place. Manny could hear the little boombox come to life.

<!-- TODO: check continuity - boombox / portable disc player from the rest stop? change previous ref? or was that simply something for the drive? is there such a thing in the cabin already? -->



Layla put on Deguello, the ZZ-Top record. Played it just about as loud as the little boombox could go.

Manny thought this a good sign. He returned his attention to the old Chevy. Had to replace just about all the hoses, gaskets. The rubber had dried out and cracked. New battery. Had to make a couple of trips in the Lincoln, picking up the new hoses, a couple of basic parts and supplies. He came inside near the end of Deguello, taking a break from the Chevy
<!-- TODO: particular model of old Chevy pickup? -->
to warm himself up a little. He called to Layla, but she didn't answer. He didn't really expect her to, so it didn't bother him too much that she remained quiet. He looked around, but didn't see her. He went into the kitchen, to put the kettle on, planning on a cup of coffee. When he cleared the counter island, he saw her, laying on the ground, bleeding from her ears. She had tried to stab herself in her ears. Manny was terrified she had done some serious damage, and ran to her, the kettle forgotten. 

A steak knife was the best tool she could find. She found no skewers or any such seriously narrow implements that might have made it deep into her ear canal to do some serious damage. Instead, the knife had cut at her ears, but didn't fit inside. The damage was all superficial, if bloody.

Manny screamed at her in rage, and tore the boombox from the wall, threw it onto the ground, where it exploded into a shower of splintering plastic and electronics. He tried to wipe her ears clean, but Layla howled and resisted, pulling away from him.

He tied her to the wrought-iron headboard of the bed, one wrist to either side, her arms spread well apart.

He ran back out into the yard, and tried to start the pickup. The Chevy wouldn't turn over. He had the damn thing purring before he went in, before he went to make himself that refreshing, warming cup of coffee that he wasn't meant to get to. He had the damn thing purring, but now, nothing. No matter, he wasn't done with the beast yet. 

He took the Lincoln for one final trip into town. First aid kit. Didn't have a goddamned first aid kit in the cabin.

Should he call Norma while he was in town? He looked at the payphone, heavy with indecision. He could let her know they were all right. But ... Layla wasn't exactly all right, was she?

Just wanted to let you know, we're fine, he could tell her. Layla's tied to an old bed, bleeding from a series of self-inflicted wounds. She tried to carve out her ears, it looks like. Tell Ma we're fine out here. See you soon. Nope. That wouldn't really work, would it?

He wouldn't have to tell her all that. He wasn't about to say where they were anyhow. Just check in so they might not worry so much. Norma was the only person  who might suspect they had gone up to the Cabin.... He should never have taken her. Stop that. Of course he should have. Of all the things to regret, that short holiday was not one. So, things currently might be a little more convenient if Norma had no way of making a geographical connection.

He could call her, just check in. Let her know they were fine, perhaps imply that they were elsewhere, that they had gone somewhere ... not here.

Tell her a little lie. 

Layla's fine. I dropped her off with some doctor. She wasn't doing too good. I'm just sticking around, waiting for her to get better, so I can take her home. Yeah, just staying in a hotel up here. Out here. Down. Whatever. Oh no, I didn't even think of that. There's no doctor up there, is there?

What's that? The doctor was worried about her parents, he thought it might be best to keep her location quiet, just for a bit. She's having a hard time. I don't know. Doesn't want to eat, doesn't want to talk.

What does she like? Any favorite foods? Anything I can tell the doctor? The nurses, staff, whatever? Oh yeah?

Okay, tell them she's okay, I guess. Tell them I dropped her off with a doctor. Maybe don't even tell them I called, you could say a doctor did, just to let you know she's okay. He'll call again to keep them updated, and to let them, you know, know when she can come home.

Perfect. Aw, shucks, I miss you too. It'd be great to do another trip like ... no ... we didn't get caught in that storm at all. 

Beat it right over the--

Shit

Beat it right down the road. I mean, we got plenty wet, but the roads ... she drives fine the Lincoln ... found the doctor's.... I've got to go.

Shit. Shit.

He hung up the payphone and stumbled away from it in a bit of a daze. He hadn't meant to call anyone. Hadn't really realized that's what he was doing. Hadn't really realized thats what he did. He just sort of woke up at the tail end of some conversation going wrong. He found himself saying things he hadn't meant too, without understanding the context of how he even got there. Like waking up in the middle of a conversation. He thought he knew exactly what he was doing ... contemplating a quick talk with Norma. An update, just to let them know they were okay, to tell her Layla was with someone else, not with Manny. That Manny had dropped Layla off with a doctor and left, maybe that he stayed nearby to take care if she needed it ... but then ... just when he was thinking about what it would be like, there he was, the phone clutched tightly in his hand, in his sweating palm, his fingers aching, his hand aching as he squeezed the hard plastic to the side of his face, leaning into it with an uncomfortable pressure he hadn't noticed until just then either. Face sweating and cold, palms sweating and cold, trying to back out of the conversation without rousing suspicion. He should not have called her. What was it she said Layla liked to eat? He could get some groceries with the first aid kit. Could go back in there and load up a hand basket. Mushroom Risotto? Did kids really like that? Layla was not like any other kid Manny had ever known, that was for sure. Perhaps it was true.

But there he was, coming to his senses without any memory of the actions that had carried him up to that point. Realizing that things were going wrong without any understanding of what had lead to such a critical moment. 

Like when he had taken Layla. He woke up as they were turning onto the drive. The highway behind them, the storm just settling in, snow covering the ground behind as he drove the Lincoln further away from civilization. He knew that the snow, as it fell behind them, as it fell around them, would prevent any chance of departure, would lock them into the cabin. What was he thinking? He didn't know, but he had been thinking something. He had been thinking to take care of the girl, to protect her from the violence she had been exposed to, the violence he had been exposed to. It had unhinged him. Deborah, Mrs. Kryczyk holding the girl down, pouring hot wax onto her face, into her mouth. It freaked him out. He didn't know what else to do. He didn't know what else he had done. Didn't remember a thing until he found himself driving the Kryczyk family car up the drive of his own mountain hideaway, vague and horrible images chasing him up the road, driving him before the storm. In a literal sense, for the storm closed in about them, just as they closed the doors of the cabin, and he set to getting the works in order, starting with the stove, starting with the chimney, making sure the ventilation shaft was clear of debris and was shielded from exposure to snowfall or other precipitation and all. He had to climb up on the roof to remove some fallen branches. They had crushed the little aluminum chimney-top
<!-- TODO: chimney-top cover to keep the rain out? what's that? -->
and generally sealed the area. Not a bad thing, or not the worst thing, at least, for the coverage had prevented previous rains or snows from falling down into the pipe, so the stove and it's environs were generally pretty dry. He cleared the roof of fallen branches, made a quick check for damage. Other than the little chimney-top, everything looked pretty good. He cleared the space and made some quick repairs and got the fire going, just moving forward, as he always did when he found himself in some situation where the road behind was obscured and hidden away. There was no real point moving backwards, was there? There was nothing to be done about it. You had to trust yourself. Yourself it was that carried you to where you are, even if you lost a little piece of that. When those pieces disappeared tended to be moments when Manny couldn't afford to backtrack and question or undo things. They were moments of pressure and of urgency when fast action was demanded, the way out needed focus on the present moment. 

That's why he figured he lost the road behind. Something in him just knew that he had to focus on the here and now bits of what he was doing. Distraction and questions about what had been done were pointless. Were a waste. The only way out was to forget everything else, look at the cards he was dealt, and play the hand to the best of his ability. And that was damn well what he was going to do. If only he could remember what else he had told Norma. Did she know? Did she know where he had taken the girl? Did she think they had come up here, to the cabin?

They'd have a hell of a time finding it, he knew ... but Norma had been there once, he had taken her.... She might know enough to get close, to start asking questions. And damn damn damn if Manny hadn't been in near every store near every day since the storm, picking up every possible thing he might need to winter over up here ...

He took the first aid kit and went back to the cabin. The fire had gone out, and the place was shy of fifty degrees when he came in. He checked the thermometer on the wall.

Layla shivered violently on the bed, dried blood caked to the sides of her face, to the sheets, largely in disarray. It looked like she had struggled to free herself initially, before deciding that it might be a beneficial thing to wrap herself with the blankets, but most of them were kicked to the floor, there was a sheet and the corner of an old wool blanket, half covering her legs. She moaned in shaking discomfort as Manny covered her with the rest of the blankets. 

He went to the stove and worked at it. Built up a fire and got the temperature back up toward comfortable, habitable levels.

Manny put on the kettle. He made a cup of coffee for himself, and filled a bowl with hot water.

He placed the coffee and the bowl of steaming water on the bedside table. He took off his clothes and crawled beneath the blankets, pressed his naked body to Layla, trying to warm her. She kicked as he pulled her pants from her body. She tried to resist, but he was strong. He pinned her, squeezing with his legs, as he surrounded her, scissored down on her body with a vice-grip. He dipped a cloth in the scalding water and began to wipe the girls face, to wipe her ears. They began to bleed again as he cleared away the old, dirty, clotted blood. The wounds didn't look too bad, nearly all external. The steak knives were fat-bladed, hearty pieces.

He cleaned her up, though she hissed and pulled away from the hot cloth. He scrubbed her until she turned pink. Hydrogen peroxide foamed out her ears when he dabbed it onto the fresh, raw wounds. He couldn't really bandage her ears, so he packed them with cotton and ointment. Gently. Just trying to provide some coverage to absorb any bleeding without letting scabs fill her ears, to provide protection from bacteria or other infection.

He untied her the next day. She had ceased to struggle, to pull away even. She didn't get out of the bed. He got up and stoked the fire, jumped back into the bed to hold his naked body close to hers, he laid next to her until the air warmed, then he got up, got dressed and went about preparing mushroom risotto in the big iron skillet. He didn't find arborio rice at the market, so he went about the task with a plain brown variety, mixing in margarine and liquid from a can of beef broth at intervals. The whole thing took forever. "I couldn't find any bario rice," he told Layla. "I don't know how important that is, if it's really special to the recipe. I figure brown rice will do the trick. Should work just fine."

"Prick good jerk unwind," Manny heard, or thought he heard Layla say from the bed. 

"What's that?" he asked, trying to sound nonchalant. He thought that the best way to encourage her to continue speaking, to accept it and engage without drawing too much attention to it as a miracle or as a marvel or any such thing, just to continue the conversation as if it were the most natural thing in the world, rather. But she didn't continue.

The risotto came out terrible. He lifted the spoon to her mouth, shoveled bits of it in, but most of it fell down her chin. He tried it himself. The rice was still hard in places, though he had been stirring it on the black surface of the wood stove for hours. The fire had gone rather low at one point. He had been so absorbed with his task, that he hadn't realized the temperature had dropped so low. He through several logs into the maw of the firebeast when he realized what he had done, what he had let happen, rather, but he now blamed the lapse in temperature at his risotto failure. That and the margarine. He didn't think it held up as well as butter would have.

"I don't blame you," he said. "I wouldn't want to eat it either. It isn't very good."

"Dysentery's hood," Layla answered.

A couple of days later, Manny drove the red rattling deisel beast up the drive, and found Layla trudging down the middle, toward the road. She wore a dressing gown, had no shoes on. Her feet were icicles. Didn't seem to have frostbite, luckily. But still.... Manny wanted to play some music for the girl, but he had smashed the little boombox to bits on the wooden floor. He warmed her as best he could. Tied her back to the bed.

"You'll freeze to death," he told her. "I'm afraid you're going to hurt yourself."

"Assert yourself." Insert yourself?

He gave it a few more days, but things didn't improve. He kept having visions of Norma leading a vicious band of police officers up the drive. He woke in the middle of the night, covered in sweat, shaking, clutching at his chest, feeling for bullet holes that faded with the dream. Thank god.

He packed Layla into the car, and drove her down into the valley. Down to a particular rehab center where he had once spent some time himself.

* * *

"You can't just check anybody into the sanitarium," Doctor Connor said. "It doesn't even look like you are her legal guardian. Are you her legal guardian, Manny?" Doc Connor slid his glasses down his nose, looked at Manny with eyes naked and wet. Big shining saucers of condescension looking up at Manny. He had a big round face and oddly hunched shoulders that made him look a bit like an owl. Manny had always thought so, and thought so still.

"But look at her," Manny said in exasparation, in desparation. "She needs something. She needs help..."

"Manny, this looks bad for you. Where are her parents, she can't be seventeen, even. She should be at home. Is she ... a runaway? You didn't take her from home, did you Manny? Are her parents looking for her? Where did you get this girl? And did you ... do ... any of that?" He gestured toward Layla, who sat silently in the corner, on a stiff-backed wooden chair, her hands folded in her lap, blisters on her face, visible upon her lips and all around her mouth, burn marks, jagged strips of cloth tied around her head, holding red-wadded gauze patches over her ears. She was wearing a stained, filthy dressing gown, and had a faux-fur blanket wrapped around her shoulders.

"Oh, god no," Manny said. But when he looked back at Doc Connor, those big owl-eyes were raised incredulously, were raised in disbelief. Doc Connor was shaking his head with his eyebrows raised and a questioning look on his round, flat face. He held his left hand up in front of him and encircled his wrist with his right hand. He twisted his hand back and forth, rubbing at the wrist of his left hand as he nodded toward the girl, a wrinkle of concern or distaste crinkling across the bridge of his short little hook of a nose.

Manny looked back to Layla, to her peacefully folded hands. Peacefully, he thought, but maybe tense. The were held perfectly still, maybe not at rest, but frozen in ice. He saw there what had caught Doc Connor's attention. Bright red bands around her delicate little wrists. Welts from the rough cord he had used to tie her down.

"I ... I had to," Manny said. "She might have hurt herself."

"Really?" Doc Connor asked, blinking his large moon eyes at Manny, flashing them like signal lamps from a distant shore, sending coded messages to Manny's ship out at sea. Conditions ashore are not what you've expected. Double check the charts, this port is not our home. The shore he recognized and welcomed as familiar territory is not as he expected, the world outside shifting, altering as if a dream ...

"She ... her ears ... she did that. I thought she was fine, was getting better. Her parents beat her so bad. Her mother ... her mother beat her, and I thought, if I could just get her away, take her somewhere safe, she'd be all right. But she hasn't been.  At first she seemed okay. She's always been a little strange. A little weird, so I didn't think anything of her quiet. She's good at talking, but sometimes it takes a while to get her there. She has to want to do it. To put on a show. Doesn't just talk like normal people, about nothing. It's always a ... a ... I don't know. Something special, something different. But she wouldn't start."

"The wood's heart," she said.

"I cooked her the food I thought it would help. But I left her alone. Went out into the yard. I was happy for a minute. And I came back inside. I came back in and I didn't see her. I went around to the kitchen, and she was on the floor, with this knife."

"...the door. With his wife."

"This steak knife in her hand, trying to use it like a Q-tip. Trying to ... I don't.... Thank god it's a big wide one, she couldn't get it in there. In her ear."

"A sin there ... in here...."

She cut it up pretty good, but I don't think she really got inside." 

"She really got inside," Layla said. Neither of the men paid her any heed.

"There was a lot of blood. I tied her. Yes, I tied her down, but ... I had to get supplies, to get first aid stuffs ... to clean her up. I didn't want to leave her. I didn't want her to ... I don't want her to hurt herself. I wanted to help her. Please, Doc. You can help her. I won't take her home. I won't tell you who her parents are. You can't send her away if I just leave. Will you? Have the police come and pick her up? Arrest her?"

"Rest sir," said the girl.

"I won't have her arrested, Manny. But this ... can't happen just like this. I can't just admit her to the hospital without proper procedures.... She clearly needs some medical attention, and we have some more appropriate facility here than you have. I'll have a nurse come and take a look at her. We'll see what we can do. I'm very worried about you, Manny. Would you like to stay for a couple of days, let me keep an eye on you? You can be close to the girl. What did you say her name was?"

"Layla. Her name is Layla. I don't know if I said."

"Layla," said the doctor, and he wrote some notes in his note pad, on his desk.

"Wish ... eyes ... dead ... Layla ..." she said.

"No," said Manny. "No."

"It's alright, son," said Doc Connor.

"No. No I can't. I can't stay here." Manny stood up, a look of confusion wiping sense from his face. He wrung his hands together nervously. "I've got to go."

"Relax a little, hold on a moment," the doctor said. "It's fine, of course, I can't make you stay, but I think it might be good for you. I think it might be the right thing to do, for you to stay here for a couple of days, at least. Let me keep an eye on you. You can keep an eye on Layla here."

"Keep my own," said the girl. "Lay low here."

"No," Manny reached for his coat, which was slung over the back of his chair. He moved toward the door. Doc Connor stood quickly. Rose from behind his desk, and moved to stand between Manny and the door. "Please," he said.

"Leave," the girl said.

"You can't," said Manny. "I need to ..."

"Where are you staying?" asked Doc Connor. "At least tell me where you are staying. A number? A phone number, so I can get a hold of you."

Manny panicked, looking confused and threatened, he forced his way out past the doctor, and ran for the parking lot, jumped into the old Chevy and took off up the road. 

For a while before he left. Manny and the doctor talked, their conversation going much as it was illustrated here, but it was punctuated by strange outbursts from Layla. Echoes and alterations of the words they spoke. Repeating back snips and scraps of their conversation, or pieces of language remeniscent of their conversation, homophonous elements with different meaning. She shouted out threatening bits of previously heard words... Her mother, shouting at her. The climactic moment, when Deborah returned to the library, blaming Layla for covering up her father's affair, his infedilities. The things her mother had shouted at her, parsed from the conversation between Manny and the Doctor, and refracted, re-uttered. This contributed greatly to Manny's unease, for his own stability had been greatly challenged by her tendency to do this in the days since he had snatched her away from the violent scene at home. He always identified with her. She struggled with emotion, with the world, with relating to others much as Manny had struggled when he was younger. Though in different ways, they had much in common, he felt. He was overwhelmed by emotion, manic, prone to violent fits, he read exaggerated emotional motivations into every activity of every other. Every outsider, he had blown all things out of proportion, where Layla seemed to exist in a world devoid of such hot feeling. Everything was logic to her. They seemed a perfect fit. Manny had learned to deal with his problems--much through the help of Doctor Connor and through his time at the Seven Oaks sanitarium. He could help her. The first thing was to get her away from the violent situation at home. Her parents didn't understand Layla like he did. He could make her whole, could make her happy. She could make him happy.

So when the outburst came, when the altercation occured, Manny snatched her up and carried her up into the hills, where they could make each other whole. 

But something went wrong. He did her no good, and she ... her silent isolation unnerved him, and when he tried to break the silence, and fill the void with soothing conversation, she took pieces of what he was saying, twisted them up into horrible, violent, evil little phrases, and thrust them back at him. It was wearing him thin. His grip began to slip. He was not sure what he had done and what he hadn't done now.

As he put his coat on and tried to rush from Doc Connor's office, he saw, in his mind's eye, Layla sitting on the floor of the kitchen, slumped over sideways, bleeding from her ear as Manny ... Manny wasn't cleaning her ear, he wasn't looking to stop the bleeding and protect her, he was stabbing at her, jamming a knife into her in order to stop her from twisting up all that she heard and turning every word into a weapon, a violent little weapon slicing apart the very reality in which Manny dwelt.

No. That's not how it happened, was it? That couldn't be what had happened. He was trying to help her. He tied her down to prevent her from hurting herself again. Or had he tied her down just to punish her. To prevent her from getting away. She hadn't made an effort to get away, had she? She had. He pulled up the drive, and there she was, face blank as slate. Without emotion, but walking in the snow without shoes. Not because she was confused, but because he had taken her shoes. Destroyed them so she could not get away, so that she couldn't walk out in the snow while he was away. But she did. She tried to. So he had to tie her up when he went into town.

He went in to buy first aid supplies, but also he went to the bar, he drank there for a few hours. Came back to the cabin drunk, it was the middle of the night. The fire had burnt out, and Layla was shivering violently on the bed, trying to keep herself warm under the corner of the blankets that had mostly slid from the bed. She had pissed herself some time before. The smell of her sweat and acrid urine filled the cabin. He scrubbed her with boiling water, stripped his own clothes off after the bed was cleaned, as clean as he could get it. Great wet spot in the middle of the mattress. He put down towels. To keep them dry atop the wet spot? or to absorb blood?

No. His mind was running away with him. This couldn't be the way. This wasn't what had happened. He would never hurt her. Would never consciously hurt her.

While he was talking with the doctor. Conversing, trying to convince the doctor to help the girl, she said things, said things echoing their own words, but also echoing Deborah's words to her from days before. From weeks before? How long had it been? Manny didn't know. He was getting more and more confused.

* * *

She said things like

make me look a fool in my own house?

like to talk do you?

the last word?

I'll burn that tongue right out of your deceitful little mouth.

How dare you distract me?

cover up for your father

take advantage of my love for words

take advantage of my passion with your lies

your lies

you don't feel anything

every word from your lips, a contrivance

calculating little bitch

I'll show you

dare you to use your broken little mouth against me

think you are so clever

manipulator

deceit

liar

hold still

you'll never use that mouth against me again

i trusted you

this is what i get

curse you

curse your birth

abomination

if it werent for you, he wouldn't turn to those ... little ... sluts

you've been nothing but a burden

i've given up everything for you, and you repay with this

this collection of lies

burn the tongue from your mouth

teach you to interfere with my work

to interfere with my marriage

damn your ears

what the hell is the matter with you

can't take the noise, can you?

what the hell have you done?

look at this mess

that smug look on your face

* * *

Layla said these things, some of them, some things like them, while Manny spoke to Doctor Connor. Each time she opened her mouth, without expression, she said these things. 

And with each thing she said, Manny's equilibrium shifted, he got a little more uncomfortable. Some of the things she was saying ... were they things he had said to her? Things he had said to her while he had cut at her ears with the steak knife, while he had scrubbed at her skin with the coarse cloth and boiling water, scrubbed at her until her skin was pink and raw?

Manny shouldered his way past the doctor and rushed out of the sanitarium, alarm buzzing as he crashed his way through the entry door without keying in the proper combination.

He sped away, and Doc Connor looked after him with some concern.

Ah, well, he thought. He would try to find this girl's family. She was in rough shape. He'd look after her for a bit, see what they might be able to do for her, in the meantime.

She seemed to benefit from conversation. The opportunity to bounce back words in different context seemed to be her only method of communicating ... if that's what she was doing. And Connor thought she was. Of course, she might have been simply turning some dark mechanism to work on what she heard, but judging from her state, he thought she was working through some recently experienced trauma, or series of traumas.

If Terry felt up to it, she might do well to share his room. She could bunk with Terry and that other new guy, Nancy. If she continued to be so ... negative, to project such violence ... she might be a little much for Nancy. But then, she might be good for him too.

Doc Connor called Terry and Nancy down to his office. They arrived a short while later, escorted by Cookie, the massive nurse.

* * *

<!-- I have hesitated a long while before entering this place. That is to say, we have taken a long and circuitous route, we have travelled in a long, meandering measure, visiting places that we will visit again, places that do not exist. We have met people that are figments of the imagination. The elements, the forces are the same. They have all taught us something, imparted something to the journey, to the ones making the journey. To us. -->

The pieces do not, as of yet, fit together. Not in any logical sense. But, in some other, some intuitive sense, perhaps, there is a pattern, an order. A net woven of conflicting images and storylines and characters, all leading us here, to a place that does not exist. A place outside of time or logic where some of these voices will meet. Where the most important of these voices have met. Where they are meeting now. Under the roof of this impossible mountain sanitarium, far removed from the general motions of the day to day world.

If I see clearly ahead--a thing altogether uncertain--we will herein re-form our perceptions, reform our policies and look back at such places as we have been in a new light, filtered through a new lens, the interactive lens of voice and voice working upon one another. Everywhere we have been, we shall go again, and we shall perhaps go into some new places too. We might even skip some of the places we have been. Seems a little presumptuous to think that my vision is so clear. Experience has taught me otherwise. I stare forward into a fog. Shapes and images swirl in the mist, and what I see ...what I see ahead in the mist is that which lies behind, only seen from a different angle. I can see somethings both fore and aft as I turn my head back and forth. There is a castle. White and blue and sparkling with ice. Before me, the gates are open, and the dark maw of the form beckons to me, urges me on, to hurry through the mist and to enter, to seek shelter therein. Behind, I turn and see the other side. The castle is there, still white and still blue, and still sparkling in the frozen cold, but I am looking at the rear of the castle, and can see plywood, two by fours exposed beneath crumbling plaster. I can see the falsity of the thing. Yet dark shapes lurk on the ramparts, shifting about, somehow ominous and foreboding.

Behind, the image crumbling, visible as a falsehood, but its interior inaccessible. Defenses shoddy illusion, but intact--not as an image, but as a barrier. 

Ahead, the image intact, the barrier ... not broken ... but open, accesible nonetheless. 

Perhaps, taken as a portent, we might get a glimpse inside, see who those shady figures really are, walking about up there, we might see behind their masks and find some essential core. Or perhaps we shall see only another set of masks. Some might not even change. Some we might see in their previous forms, just a little closer, in a little more detail, or those details we previously suspected we understood might have changed, might be blurred by our very seeing. The world outside the box both is and is not, until we lock our eyes upon it, until we lock it in our perception and admit, and decide just what is out there.

Perhaps there is nothing behind the masks, nothing perceptible, anyhow. Perhaps each changing face will give us a glimpse at the incomprehensible, unknowable, imperceptible forms behind. Those forms that simultaneously are and are not, are there and are not there, are the other and not the one, are everything and are nothing, until we cast upon it with our eyes the mask that allows us to see. Of course, the word "eye" in this case is meant as an abstract symbol of the act of "seeing," rather than the eye as a physical organ or unit of force. The perception itself.

The world outside the box then both is and is not, and when we open the lid to peer out, to see what there is to see, to touch what there is to touch, to smell what there is to smell, to hear what there is to hear, we cast about us the veil that covers our universe. A veil that both obscures the nature and allows us to estimate its form. We cannot see what there is to see without the seeing, for the seeing gives form to that which is seen. We mount the mask with our own eyes.

Shit that smells of sex and blueberries and death and rot and geraniums and yeast and fresh-baked-bread and sour coffee grounds and eggshells and fresh beer foam right out of the tap and days upon days of beer sweat out of tired and diseased pores and spilt upon the floor sticky and hot and wine and sea breezes and vinegar and a newborn child gasping for breath as it emerges from its mother's cunt and fresh cut grass and the moon shining down on a field of clover and the wet sucking at your toes as you walk through that clover beneath the moon and the hot breath of a lover in your mouth before you are truly awake. Until you smell it. Until you get your nose right up to it and take in the air of excrement, and know it for the smell of shit.

Perhaps.

And perhaps not.

* * *

Terry had gone by the time Layla came to the sanitarium. 

Nancy knew his way around. Was generally an easy case to deal with. Withdrawn. Paranoid. But self-aware. Able to work around his hallucinations and difficulties for the most part. He felt pursued. There were forces unknown hot on his trail. This was the first place he had been in a number of years where he felt safe, where his pursuers could not get to him. Outside, they were waiting, he knew. There was a castle, a white and blue castle made of plaster that followed him around. He sometimes didn't know if he was in it now, if this place, if Seven Oaks was the castle, or if Seven Oaks kept the castle out. He didn't like to talk about that, because he knew it didn't make sense. It seemed like people wanted to listen, sometimes, but it made Nancy uncomfortable. He sat in the courtyard, watching fish swim in the pond. The weather was getting too cold for that, but he bundled up and did it anyway. Snows came, and the pond froze over and he couldn't see the fish swimming around in there any more. He got nervous. Worried about the fish. 

"They're dead!" he cried. "Frozen to death. We could have saved them."

"Beneath the ice, the fish are fine," Doc Connor told him. "This is a perfectly normal part of being a fish. The ice covers the water, and protects it. The fish slow down and relax in there. They know that nothing can get at them. They are safe and protected. When the world outside gets rough and dangerous, they get the chance to seal themselves away, and rest. All the things that trouble them during the year. Fishermen, bears, what have you, are all kept out."

"But there arent any bears or fishermen in here. Not in Seven Oaks."

"God doesn't know that. And what if there were?"

"I don't want to talk about God."

"Nature, then."

"Nature."

"And the fish, in the ice there. This can be good for them, this time of year. Think about the pond as a little bit like this place, like Seven Oaks. You are here, safe from the outside world, protected by our walls and rules and staff. You are here for a time, to rest and reccuperate. To get better, until the ice melts away...."

"What if ... in the ice ... in there with them.... What if there's something dangerous in there with them? What then?"

"What then, Nancy? Tell me."

"Then there's no way out. They're fucked, aren't they?"

"Well ... you must remember, I suppose, that the fish aren't getting out of there, even without the ice. They're world has the same limits, doesn't it?"

"But ... we could have saved them. We could have taken them out of there, taken them to some other place, some safer place...."

* * *

Nancy had traveled about extensively, moving with a revolving cast of ruffians the likes of Pope and the Russian Bear, Igor. Pursued by vague demons he supressed with excessive consumption of drugs and alcohol. He seldom knew where he was heading or where he had been. His life had degenerated into a haze of blackout and recovery. Brief moments of clarity graced him on occasion. One morning, he found himself in a Salvation Army detox / recovery center, sharing a room with Terry, the thin, effeminate man with a propensity for nonstop talk. He found himself without drugs, bereft of the roughshod company he had been keeping, and most mysteriously, without the sense of desparation, without the vague drive that had been pushing him on from place to place. He felt safe, for an interesting change. Safe, but not sane. The more he talked to Terry, the more he recognized that he had been driven by senseless fears, by paranoia, delusion, and addiction. Terry told him over and over not to look too deep.

"I mean it," he said. "Watch out for those deep waters. Don't look too deep. I see something ... I see the end of you. You might yet make it through, so long as you do not know yourself." Terry didn't necessarily think of himself as a psychic, or a seer or any such thing, he didn't really believe in such things. ESP, the metaphysical, these things were out of his ken. Yet, he was innundated by strange forces, strange tweakings of his perception. Hallucinations. He had been in and out of institutions, was clearly schizophrenic. But functional. Functional but strange. He couldn't tell the difference between things he had seen years ago, and things he had seen moments ago. He had no idea about the date. Spent his current life, his conscious moments outside of time, in a manner of speaking. He talked about next week as if it were yesterday, a month ago as if it were the present, surrounding him at any given moment.

Terry said a lot of things, but the things that stuck most with Nancy were the vague warnings to avoid introspection. This struck Nancy as odd, for the two shared some pretty introspective moments in conversation. The confession about the Christmas Castle. Nancy felt liberated by sharing this. The admission of this strange form of indirect hallucination was an introspective admission, wasn't it? By admitting this strange paranoia, and discussing its possible connotations with Terry, he had gained a certain amount of stability. He had gained the ability to resist the urge to travel on, to resist the urge to flight, to recognize that urge to move for what it was, fear driving him to flee. 

He kicked. Went through the flu of withdrawal and came out the other side, all the while listening to Terry's high pitched voice working away at the past, the present, and the future, weaving them all into a strange braid of words.

As the symptoms of drug use and sleep deprivation and general hard-living faded away, he began to feel another layer of symptom beneath. A background hum that had likely fueled his previous behaviors, but remained hidden beneath the surface, beneath the miasma of self-inflicted torturous activities and such.

A sixty-cycle hum of paranoia and delusion that he had supressed and succumbed to simultaneously. By ignoring the impulse, he had given in. Pretending there was no fear, there was no panic, no hallucinated other out there, no mysterious force felt at the fringes, the periphery of his awareness, hunting him down, hounding his every move, only steps behind him wherever he might go, pretending all this that was was not only caused him to give in to the ignored impulse.

By telling himself there was no fear, he allowed himself to give in to it completely, without understanding what he did. The cause does not exist, therefor the effect itself is a spontaneous expression of something else. The effect is cause. The effect is effect, but caused by some other natural impulse. Caused by the desire for adventure and good times. 

These were lies, he could see that now, after sobering up a little and talking with Terry for a few days. Sleepless nights, drifting in and out of the world of words and the world of visions.

So. He was fleeing something. This Christmas Castle had crept into his awareness, into his memories, into the peripheral awareness of the world around him. Something within the castle must ... be ... something. What? Some answer to his fears, some secret cause?

Why would Terry discourage him from self-knowledge? Clearly these moments of reflection had done wonders for him. There was something disturbing him, some delusion or memory hiding away, for whatever reason, in the false holliday stronghold, chasing him from town to town, from job to job, bar to bar, drink to dring. Chasing him from fix to fix. 

Why would Terry suggest that he should abstain from further introspection?

Terry was schizophrenic. There was no telling what demons plagued him. Their conversations helped. He had proved incredibly insightful, for a nutter. Surely, he must take his warnings with a grain of salt. He didn't encourage Nancy to continue his blind flight, after all. There was some necessity in confrontation. He had taken this easy path too long. Far too long. It was time he stopped the flight and looked into the cause. The secret cause. 

It was time he stopped, let the Castle envelop him. To see what it contained, plumb its depths for secrets.

If the castle was anything, it was the box that contained the cat. The Schrodinger's castle, constructed of plaster and cheap lumber and glitter and paint. Within ... something ... nothing ... together. Both something and nothing until Nancy could put his eye upon it, until Nancy could look within, and see. The world outside and the world inside the same. Everything and nothing together. To fear the hidden was folly, for sure. There was nothing to fear and everything to fear until he could see. Whether or not he understood what it was that drove him on, the result was the same. It drove him on. He fled before it, losing himself in a self-destructive tide of bile rising within himself and washing over the vast veiled universe. He cast out bile with the veil. Everything he projected, everything he understood or tried to understand came out covered with this vague horror that fueled him. To ignore it did nothing. The fear plastered everything around him. If he were to look within, to confront such hidden cause as Terry warned him against confronting.... Either there would be nothing, the confrontation itself would melt away the cause and with a little understanding, demystify the source, or there would be something. Something specific and perhaps concrete. Whether concrete or abstract, there would be something, and as such, Nancy would be able to develop a strategy to disarm the cause. Perhaps he would need some help, but why not?

He was tired of running, tired of acting without thinking, tired of taking that which he was offered without fighting. He craved now an alternative. He craved the opportunity to earn something for himself. No acheivement without sacrifice, no?

So, though Terry, who had been the largest positive influence upon him since ... since when? when had there been a positive influence exerted upon Nancy? When his sister had sent him away, sent him to live with marijuana farmers rather than let him face the fallout of nuclear family? Though Terry had been the largest positive influence upon him that he could easily recognize, or remember, he had to deny his advice. A large part of it, at least. 

Nancy knew that he needed to stop his flight, to suspend his forward motion and seek help, seek something within him, to find answers and perhaps even solutions.

Nancy moved from the Salvation Army detox center to the Seven Oaks sanitaruim. It was an easy enough transition, for the two organizations had clear ties. There was an established relationship between the two places, clientelle moved back and forth according to their needs, occasionally. 

Nancy checked himself in, committing himself to the idea of spending at least the winter there, isolated from the outside world. A fish, trapped, resting beneath the surface of the frozen pond. Isolated in the waters of the subconscious for the duration of winter. A period of rest and regeneration. He looked forward to the potentials of the new situation. The active path, he saw, in such a way as he had never seen before.

"I've never before seen something so strongly," said Terry. "Be careful. Should you come to know yourself, it will be the end of you."

"Yes, I know," Nancy said. "You've been pretty clear about it, and I want to thank you. You've really made a difference with me.... But, I'm checking in. I've got to do it. I know I've got to do it. I can't keep running away from things and ignoring these ... signs. I think I can get help here. They helped you, didn't they?" He knew they had.

"I'll pray for you," Terry told him. He had never spoken words to Nancy that had indicated any real measure of faith or propensity toward prayer.

* * *

After the incident at the Kryczyk home, Layla became much more difficult. Always an isolated and remote child, she now retreated further away from the world. Where she had always been able to engage emotionally through music, there was now nothing. This ability to engage, to responed to music, was in itself problematic. There was little that anyone else understood about the particular functioning of this aspect of her. Indeed, it was largely kept secret. Norma and Manny, perhaps, knew a little of what music meant to her, but her parents, who where the main contact with her doctors, knew only that music could bring her great distress. They knew nothing of the joy she also found in its embrace. Layla kept this joy from her parents for one simple reason, for the fact that her father's playing invariably brought her into distress and horror. She couldn't bear tthe thought that her father might think his playing brought her pain, while others' playing brought her pleasure. She was unable to fake joy at hearing her father's work at the piano, or his compositions, but she was able to fake distress when exposed to other music in the presence of her parents.

Manny knew of her variable response, for he had caught her outside his own window, at the gatehouse, listening rapturously while he played records within.

Ne never directly challenged her. Nor indirectly at that. He just let the music play, turned it up a little louder, so that the girl might hear it from her hiding place in the tree outside his window.

Norma? She saw Layla outside the door to Walter's studio, when he had tutee's in session. Some of them played horribly, but some of them played with grace and meditative patience. If not so technically skilled as Walter, they had a naive sort of innocent touch that brought her pleasure.

Layla was often imitating her peers and her parents, people she saw on the television. An excellent mimic, she often created these little scenes that nearly gave the impression that she might have a normal, or near-normal emotional life. At least for the duration of her little performance.

But after the altercation, after the moment her mother tried to sear out her tongue with burning wax, Layla went numb. None of the music she heard meant anything to her. Irritation, perhaps, but that was all. No real appearance of emotional response. She ceased her reenactments as well. She entered the Seven Oaks Sanitarium in a distant, unresponsive state, communicating with little more than the occasional outburst of echolalia.

* * *

"Terry could talk to that girl," Nancy told himself. "If only he were here."

But Terry wasn't there. If anyone were to talk to her, it would have to be Nancy himself. Or the staff. Doctors, nurses, what have you. Nancy wasn't up to the task. He watched her out of the corner of his eye, for a day or two, and thought about what Terry might say to her, how he might engage her and talk and talk, giving her plenty of opportunity to participate in a conversation, or just listen, as suited her. Terry could do that without putting any pressure on. Nancy didn't know how he did it. Didn't know how to go about it himself. His thoughts didn't get much past the initial phase. He didn't know what Terry would have said, how Terry would have done it. Nancy didn't have the confidence to go ahead and engage her himself. 

He watched her out of the corner of his eye for a day or two, wondering about what he might do, but realizing that he wasn't Terry, he let it be. She soon slipped from his awareness as anything more than a fixture. She blended with the background hum of the other patients, of the furniture et al, and he let go the idea. The desire to talk, to engage her, slipped away.

She, however, took a particular liking to him, or found some interest, at least, and would follow him about as time and opportunity allowed, listening to him talk to others, watching him sit by the pool.

* * *

Music had ceased to have an effect upon Layla. After the incident at her home, none of it held any sway over her. When at the cabin, in Manny's cabin, when Manny was out in the cold, working on his old Chevy, Layla turned her attention to the CD player Manny had brought. The little machine played a disc that Manny had picked up at the travel center on the drive up. A disc that Manny recognized as one of her favorites. He had a copy at home, and Layla would climb the tree outside his window, and hide out in there, listening as he played the thing. Hoping no one would find her. She wanted no one to know of her relationship to the music, of her positive reaction, and Manny pretended not to notice her there. He let her hide out up there, and he turned up the volume a little louder when he saw her climb. When he knew she was up there, in the tree outside his window, Manny would turn up the volume on the stereo and queue up another couple of disks, a short set of music he knew she liked, progressing into some music that he thought she might enjoy. 

This last category was a little hit or miss. Every once in a while, he put on a record that caused Layla to drop from the tree in a quaking panic. She'd hit the ground and take off in a run, clutching at her stomach or her ears or her throat, depending on the mood of the music. Manny got a better idea for her tastes and as time went on, more and more of the 'maybe' records were hits, and less of them sent the girl fleeing for cover, overrun by nausea.

Up in the mountains, at the cabin, Manny turned on the CD player and walked outside to work on the truck. Layla heard the music and felt nothing. She had felt nothing for days, and the music reminded her of how she had felt when listening to that same music previously. She felt nothing other than a mild annoyance. A mild annoyance that swelled in the emptiness, in the absence of other feelings. Inside her, a vast gulf of void. A vacuum irresistible. She switched discs.
<!-- Deguello? 

	Manny listens to rock and such more than classical. 

	remember to have the music change up in previous telling.
 -->
Let another play. She skipped through, from track to track, hoping for some spark of feeling, but felt none. She switched discs again, put on each of the CDs that Manny had brought, scanned through, saving a favorite for last. Nothing. She went into the kitchen and started looking for a knife. She found a fat-bladed steak knife and tried to stab it into her ear, over and over, but the blade was to fat. She sliced up her outer ear, destroying cartilage and spraying blood onto the cabinet doors, onto the floor, but she failed to penetrate into her skull. 

Manny found her collapsed on the kitchen floor, writhing in pain, thrusting the serrated blade at the side of her head, in the center of a growing field of splattering blood.

She withdrew to a point further than she had ever withdrawn before. Near catatonic. Seemed not to be afflicted by motivation, desire or ability to communicate after that, save the occasional echoed response. 

In Seven Oaks, she talked more, if only because there was more talk going on around her. Didn't speak directly, just echoing back. Quietly, to herself.

She sat in a corner, watching conversation, when there was conversation to watch, watching a television when there was not. She sometimes hugged her knees to her chest. She repeated random snatches of phrase.

Music did nothing for her.

Until.

Nancy picked up a guitar and sang.

"Well it ain't no use, calling out my name, girl. Like you've never done before. It ain't no use calling out my name, girl. I can't hear any more."

Some Dylan, other folk numbers. Neil Young. Stuff she'd never heard before. She moved closer, and listened. It had some effect on her, a subtle effect that might have gone unnoticed.

She started talking a little more, right after Nancy's little performance. 

It was a thing he was doing more and more as the winter deepened outside Seven Oaks. He found an old steel-string guitar in the activity room,
<!-- activity room? -->
worked at the intonation, tuned it up as best he could, though it was missing the B string--he took the high E off, put it in the guides for the B string and tuned it down after a while, figuring he could round out some chords easier that way.

Layla didn't talk directly to anyone. She stayed on the periphery, keeping her distance, but as the other residents slipped into excited conversation after the impromptu performance, congratulating Nancy and thanking him, and cursing him and damning the folk tradition in general--there was a wide range of opinion, and few filters on communication in this place--Layla talked. She stayed in the corner, watching everyone, watching Nancy mostly, and talking softly to herself. One of the other residents picked up on something she had said and started laughing hysterically and hopping about with excitement. His name was Danny, and he spend a fair amount of time laughing hysterically and hopping about with excitement. So there wasn't anything particularly unusual about his reaction. His action / reaction. But it caught the attention of Doc Connor anyhow, and he edged a little closer, to listen in. Damned if it didn't look like they were having a conversation.

A strange sort of conversation, perhaps, made up of confusing babble and laughter and repeated phrases of overheard conversation from across the room--repeated out of context and strangely, somehow in context. If there could be said to have been any proper context to the so-called conversation held in the space between Danny and Layla.

* * *

I pick it up now and again. Play when I can. Never too serious. Thought I gave it up a while back. It's funny though, how some things remain in the fingers. In the body. I thought I ... I had forgotten it all. I mean. I didn't even remember playing the thing, until I picked it up just now. How strange is that. It was like an automatic pilot thing. And it brought back ... something. Some things. Some things lie under the skin. In muscle and bone, locked away from the thinking mind. Is that possible? I think there's this other level of knowing, of understanding, of mind, somewhere away from the ... the language parts of me. Away from the part that thinks, that uses words. Away from the brain. Some kind of knowing that's in the nervous system. That's in the movements of my body, in the rhythms and relationships. Does that even make sense?

Jellyfish don't have brains. They've got nervous systems but no brains. They still do things, they--

They've got no brain! No brain!

They still do things.

But do they learn things?

I don't know. They must.

Must they?

Jellyfish learn. Learn. Fish learn.

They learn in schools.

Just like everybody else.

Jellyfish don't travel in schools. Do they?

Got no brains? Jellyfish school. 

I think I must've grown up with those songs. The old troubadours.

Guess it was before my time, somewhat. I moved when I was 15 or so. Left home to stay with another family. Some ... Farmers. They had all these records. I'd go and listen to them down in the basement. They still listened to some. The husband did, anyhow. Had a bunch of them up in the attic. Upstairs. He found me downstairs one time, listening to his stereo with the headphones on. I was sitting on the floor with headphones on, these big ear-muff type headphones plugged into the turntable, into the amp, really, actually. Some LP sleeves on the floor in front of me. It was cold down there. Concrete floor, damp coastal air. Had an oval rug. Big oval rug, like soft, braided ropes. All pastel colors. Twists and braids. Kept the chill from seeping up. Kept enough of the cold at bay, between that oval rug and the headphones and the scratchy old LPs. The husband,
<!-- TODO: Husband's Name? Nancy's second family - the farmers. Names of Nancy's family in general? -->
the guy. Came down and found me in the basement, listening to his records. I thought I was dead. I thought he was going to be so angry. I was sure he was going to beat me or something. Punish me. I was terrified. His wife had warned me to stay out of the basement, had warned me not to mess with anything. Anything not belonging to me, or anything at all. 

Don't touch anything. Stay out of the basement. She said these things. 

He came down and caught me with his headphones on. I had found this amp and turntable under a layer of old dust, swept them off, brushed them off with the sleeve of my shirt. They were kind of set up together, but not plugged in to power or anything. I looked around, trying to find an outlet. They were close to this one, had the lamp in it, and some extension cord leading up to a high window. One of those little high windows common to basements. Down in the earth, a little slice of light coming down from above onto the oval rug.

I unplugged the extension chord. Tried the lamp first, but the little slice of sunlight wasn't really enough. I couldn't make out the sleeves, could see enough to navigate around the room, but not enough to be clear.

Oh, it was enough at first, I guess. Light from the oustide did the trick. I unplugged the lamp and plugged in the amp. 

Out with the lamp, and in with the amp. The amp had an outlet on the back. Turntable was already snug right into it. Some speakers down in the corners, mildewy cloth coverings, lengths of somehow sad-looking speaker wire. Brown and brittle feeling. There was a set of headphones in a milk crate with a short stack of records. Willie Nelson. Pete Seeger. Hank Williams. More, a few more at least.

I unplugged the speakers and tried out the headphones. They were leaving me alone for a while. I had been there a couple of days only. Having a little bit of a hard time adjusting, I guess. The lady, she didn't take too kindly to my presence. The man was alright to me. I think he took me in as a favor to my sister. I don't know if there was something between them. It never occured to me back then, but it might explain something. Or might illuminate some of the aspects or relationships at work there. Might illuminate their attitudes toward me, at least, with a little bit of context. His wife would surely have resented me, if I came from the blood of some previous infidelity or some such thing. He was kind to me. She, not so much. Looked on me as ... I might be reading back onto this, projecting my own thoughts, but I can't see her attitude toward me as being anything other than ... the only way I can understand the way she acted toward me, is to think that I reminded her of something unpleasant. Reminded her of something she wanted to forget, but could not. Not something she wanted to forget, something she wanted to erase. Something she had tried to wipe out. Something she had tried to eradicate from the past, but had been unable to do so.

He looked at me with a little bit of sadness, perhaps. With a little bit of regret maybe, a little bit of fondness. But sadness mostly. He wanted to forget, to wipe out the past, to please his wife, but couldn't. And he might have been willing to pretend whatever had happened in the past hadn't, but he couldn't. Not with me there. He'd already opened the box, and taken a peek at Schrodinger's cat. He'd closed the lid, and was willing, for the sake of his wife, to refrain from discussing it, but the cat was dead. He knew it. And he knew she had looked in there too. Knew that she knew, and so forth. He tried to leave it alone, to let her say what she might. That the cat was a healthy little scrapper or some such thing, but the smell couldn't be ignored forever. They had a dead cat on their hands, and they needed to bury the damned thing.

I'm sure I'm projecting when I say all these things. I'm sure I'm just plain wrong about all this stuff about previous relationships and what not. But if I think of it that way, whether it's real or not, it helps me to understand something ... It let's me ... I don't know. I'll try not to just make stuff up, but, it's hard for me.

So I was down in the basement, sitting on that oval rug, woven out of pastel ropes of cloth. Like T-shirt fabric maybe. Stretchy and pretty soft, generally. Cotton. Had the headphones on. I was hiding out. I never really heard those kind of records before. We had classical music at home. I wasn't really allowed to go on and hunt out my own interests or any such thing. 

I was down in the basement on that rug, with the headphones on. I was hiding out. Didn't want anyone to hear me. Especially Her. I didn't want her to come down and catch me messing with their stereo equipment. She had made it pretty clear that she didn't want me messing with anything. 

So there I was, this twisted fluttering feeling in my stomach, at the thrill of it. Nerves, I guess. Laying out the LP sleeves on the rug, just soaking in the big graphics, reading along as I listened. Reading lyrics as I listened to the records. The sun started to go down, and the little shafts of light coming in through the high windows began to fade away into nothingness.

I stood up. I looked around for more plugs, didn't find anything. 

Eventually, I unplugged the extension cord heading out the window, and replaced it with the lamp, so that I could once again see the records, could see the sleeves laid out around me. I sat back down and put the headphones back on. It didn't take long for me to lose myself in the music.

* * *

He was out working in the yard. The husband. I'd unplugged somthing of his, something he was working on. He came in to check the fuses and the cord and all. Found his cord unplugged, and instead, me sitting there in the middle of the dusty floor with the headphones on and my eyes closed and all.

He plugged in one of those speakers, so he could hear what I was listening to, before I even noticed him. I didn't look up when the speaker went on, even. I couldn't tell with the headphones on.

I don't know when he came in. I didn't look up until the side ended. I opened my eyes, and reached to flip the thing, but he was there, standing by the machine. He didn't say anything, just went ahead and started that same side over again.

I don't think I'd ever done that before, just gone back to the start straight ahead. It was a Dylan record. He played Don't Think Twice, and then he lifted the needle and played it again.

I might of looked at him funny then, but he didn't say a thing, just went and turned up the volume a little more. He'd plugged in both speakers by then.

We listened to that song ... a bunch of times. And it didn't get boring or old or nothing. It just seemed to open up a little more each time. Each time that needle passed over the scratched old skin of that song ... I just ... We just ... felt a little closer, somehow, even though it was all about leaving. I had certainly just left somewhere else to get there, and maybe he'd left somewhere before, or left something. Maybe he knew what it felt like too. Maybe he knew what it felt like even more, even stronger than me, because he just kept picking that needle up and dropping it back into the silent groove at the top of the side. 

Suddenly, I felt a little bit ashamed. Ashamed that I hadn't thought of that. That I hadn't thought to just play that song again, to grab that feeling that it brought me and hold on to it. To grab it and just stay in it for a little while, at least. To stretch it out. That feeling of magic or whatever it was, that melancholy feeling didn't just end where the song ended. It was vast and beyond the whole idea of time or whatever. 

He picked up the needle and just let it move over that same stretch of time and let it wash over us, just stretch out and cover us for a while. It came over us like waves, each time a little different, but the feeling ... the same. The salt tear waters lifted me up each time, held me up in that feeling, where my feet couldn't touch the ground any longer. The song would end, and as it faded out, the wave receeded, and my feet came down back to earth, and there was a quiet little pop as he lifted the needle back up into silence, and another pop and a crackling hiss as it dropped back, and I could feel the next wave coming. Sure enough, it lifted me right from the ground again. Held me up in its cool, wet embrace for a while, and when the song was over, it let me gently back down again, left me back in normal time. But while it held me, while that song was playing ... nothing else mattered. The clock didn't exist, let alone move forward.

We didn't speak at all. 

We'd talked a little, before that afternoon. Him just trying to be polite, and me ... I don't know, just awkward. But none of that amounted to much. But that afternoon, listening to that record--eventually we got on to the rest of it--without talking, just sharing that stretched-out moment, and with nothing but silence between us ... meant so much more.

We were close after that. I like to think so, anyhow. We still didn't talk all too much--he was kind of a quiet man--but I didn't feel ... awkward with him any more.

Eventually his wife came in, and it was all "What the hell are you all doing down here?" and "You're supposed to be doing" whatever it was he was supposed to be doing, and he unplugged the old amp and plugged his extension cord back in and went back to it.

That was the end of that. But the beginning too.

We'd usually wait until the wife was out in town on errands or whatever--she had plenty of stuff to do away from the farm, somehow--but when she was gone.... He had a guitar in the back of some dusty closet. He took it out, strung it up, and showed me a couple of things. Taught me how to play some of them songs. This here's his guitar. That's right. The very one. A beauty, isn't she? Was all covered with dust and disuse for a long time....

I like to think that I gave it back to him, by coming along. 

He certainly gave something to me, I like to think that we had a little bit of a trade going. I never really felt I did repay that man's kindness, taking me in and teaching me the things he did. Teaching me to play the songs was just a part of it--

What's that?

Play the songs?

Play the song.

Which one? you want to hear a particular song?

Particular song.

Are you thinking of Don't Think Twice? I already played it, before going on all about that noise. I guess it's been long enough, all my talking. You're the reason I'm a travelling on, but don't think twice, it's all right. 

Don't think twice, it's all right.

---

So he played the song again, and then twice more after that, at her urging. Nobody got tired of the song. There were a couple people who hadn't been round, when he started, or had been just lurking around the periphery, trying to feign a lack of interest, but they gathered closer as he sang on, and each time he started again, they all leaned in and closed their eyes and let the wave pass over them, and lift them from the ground for a few moments more.

Even Cookie, the monstrously built nurse, closed his eyes and let his nearly-always stern face relax for a while.

Layla urged Nancy to play the song again, communicating still by echoing back Nancy's words to him.

This is the sight that amazed Doc Connor. He realized then that she was doing much more than mindless repetition. At least in this case. He had tried with her before, but couldn't parse any will or real communication attempt from her responses ... but here, with Nancy, it was clear she was urging him to play the song again.

Nancy looked tired, a little emotionally drained. He had shared more than he had up to that point. The song brought out a story that obviously had some serious emotional connotations. The repetition of the song, in his tale, followed by the repetition of the song, as he sang it, left him clearly drained.

"That's it," Nancy said. "I can't play it again."

"Play it again?" Layla said, pouting a little, taking half a step toward him.

"I'm sorry, little echo. I'm tired. And ... that's a little tough to remember. I didn't know it would be, but ... I'm tired. We can do it again later, okay?"

"Do it again later," she said. "Okay. I'm tired, but ... I remember. Okay."

* * *

Doc Connor's Notes (dates omitted) 

Nancy and Layla seem to have a healthy rapport going. Perhaps it is too soon to really get my hopes up, but he has had an effect on her stronger and more beneficial than months of our most promising offerings here. I wasn't ready to admit it--I don't think I even came close to realizing on a conscious level--but in the back of my mind, in the more practical areas of my heart, I was beginning to despair of a positive outcome. Where I am normally a turbid sea, tumultuous with ideas, with plans and perspectives and potential treatments, things to try ... beneath the surface of my conscious workings, there is, as a normal state of my working systems, a vast and near-overwhelming sea of ideas. I say overwhelming, for it is this very varried and diverse nature of thought that makes it necessary for the workings to stay beneath the surface. Ah! my thoughts are cryptic and what seems clear to my mind comes out onto the page as gook. I am tired. 

I have been in my study for hours, and it is well past midnight. I will have to rise in ... three hours now. I should retire from this desk and rest my head. If I can get at least two hours of decent sleep in ... that will be marvelous.

I sat with this notebook now for a specific purpose: to capture the thinking and circumstance around this situation with Layla.

I was ready to give up on her, but I did not realize this myself until witnessing her interactions with the new patient, Nancy.

<!-- TODO: Nancy's full name? figure it out? leave it out? -->

I am good at my work. I excell beyond what many are capable of.

I have always believed that a good part of my success stems from my overactive subconscious. In treating any patient, in facing any issue, problem or circumstance, really, I need only close my eyes and take a deep breath, concentrate on the concern, and I am flooded with myriad possibilities--courses of action which, in my mind, each lead to a positive outcome. It falls to me to weigh each, thinking ahead to visualize potential pitfalls, and ultimately to choose the solution or course of action I believe will lead to the solution I hold in highest regard.

I am like a chess player looking at the board, looking at the opening or the middle game, sorting out moves, weighing them in my mind--traditionally proven defenses, varriations, diversions from the classical options, based upon what I know of my opponent.

Though in this case, metaphorically speaking, my patient equates to my opponent, and I prefer to think of the patient as an ally rather than an enemy.

Anyhow, I begin to digress. The point here is Layla. I hadn't realized, or at least hadn't been able to admit to myself, that I had run clean out of ideas regarding her treatment. When I saw the way she interacted with Nancy, it was like I finally was able to take a breath. Like I was driving through a tunnel, and I emerged from the far side, out into the sun, and took a deep, gasping breath. Let in the breath I hadn't realized I'd even been holding. A little weight fell from me that I hadn't noticed pressing down upon my shoulders.

I don't mean to overdramatize the feeling, but it is strange for me. New, entirely. I was at a loss concerning Layla's future.

When I saw her reaction to Nancy's song ... their interactions immediately following ... the nagging pain I had grown accustomed to vanished. Okay okay. Enough of these inferior metaphors. I only continue with them out of exhaustion. Exhaustion, and the realization that none of these metaphors are quite adequate. I keep expecting there to be some elegant description that flows onto the pages to perfectly encapsule my feelings here.

Regardless. I saw Layla's response to Nancy. Her echolalia continues, yet she has strength to express a clear desire. Using the words he gave her, in song and in talk, she made clear a personal point of view. 

I was initially baffled by my own response. This feeling of relief I keep describing with my inadequate poetics washed over me, and I did not know its source.

I had not known I was helpless. Not helpless, but impotent, without solution or potential solution in regards to Layla. When I saw her positive response to Nancy, I was overwhelmed by an ill-defined feeling. With a few hours of reflection, I see that the feeling is relief and optimism, and the reactivation of my discontinued subconscious problem-solving processes. When I looked at Layla, the chessboard was ... not blank, but a meaningless jumble. For the first time ever, no moves presented themselves to me. At worst, in the past, faced with a near-hopeless situation, I still had options to choose from. All I needed to do was to close my eyes and take a breath. Possible solutions would climb over me, jockying for position in the focal point of my awareness. At worst, I still had options. At worst, at my most confused, I had only to choose a path whose outcome I could not clearly see. A move on the chessboard that lead to uncertainty one or two moves into the future, but at least it was something to bring us closer to the endgame. An even or favorable exchange that brought the final solution inexorably nearer. 

But, when I looked at Layla, the board ... was only confusion. There was no suggestion of solution or exchange even. As if I no longer knew the rules to the game. 

But I did not realize this until I saw hope in her response to Nancy.

This is the error I cannot forgive, I cannot allow to occur ever again.

The whole situation brings to mind The People of the Lie, by Dr. Scott Peck. A study of the concept of Evil in sort of rational and applicable terms. Whereas most people, I believe, tend to hold a conception of evil as a vast and powerful and terrible force seldom seen in the world, save in the relatively rare (if horrible) cases of holocaust and inquisition, Dr. Peck provides a definition of Evil as something much more applicable to the common day-to-day world. He holds the true nature of evil to be scapegoating. Evil, according to Peck, is the failure to follow a line of reasoning through to its logical end.

Is this what I have done? I have failed to even realize I was running out of options with Layla. The only way I can even try to justify or understand my position in the matter is to say that I was horrified to find that I had no potential solution. That I subconsciously turned from the matter entirely in order to ensure that I did not recognize my lack of enthusiastic optimism, nay, my lack of ability. I had no solution, and I turned my thoughts away from the problem so that I would not have to face it. This, according to Peck, is precisely Evil.

How many times has this occured in the past? Have there been others? Other situations I could not solve, that I simply pushed to the back burner, subconsciously classified as low-priority until they faded away completely, their cries for help drowned out by others, by those for whom I could see solutions, whether real or imagined?

My thoughts are terrible and consuming. Another log on the fire of concerns that keeps me from sleep tonight.

I must not remain blind to such things. I must be vigilant. I must not be taken unaware, be caught napping and all that. Oh, thank heavens I have not decided to pursue a career in the literary arts. I have a flair for amateur melodrama, it seems (I don't know why I can't shake the feeling of writing these notes for someone else's perusal--I know they are only for my own benefit [or detriment] but always, I regret my lack of ability to come off as eloquent on the page).

But, yes. I should remain thankful. I should be happy that Nancy has come along in this situation, and pointed out my shortcomings. Is this a petty way of looking at the situation? Surely it is. Surely I am grateful at the opportunity to address a concern. How to overcome a problem when the problem remains hidden from view? No how. No how to overcome the hidden difficulties. So thank you to Nancy. From me and from Layla. From Layla especially, for she is the one. She is the patient. She is the one who might benefit from their interactions....

And of course, any benefit achieved in this place is achieved under my watchful eye and is therefore due to my efforts.

I should not allow myself to feel inconsequential or incompetent (indeed not!) for I am again inspired by potential healing solutions to Layla's crippled condition. I can bring her back, I know I can.

I must not dismiss the fear, however.

The fear is real, is a driving force within me. I must use it to inform my actions, rather than cripple me. As long as these concerns can push me forward and benefit my flock, there is hope.

Chance is an illusion. Synchronicity. There is much to this concept. Jung knew. Late in his life, he was increasingly obsessed with such things, no? None the matter.

Nancy has brought something out of Layla that I thought had been lost. Not thought, exactly--as I have been saying (or writing, in my disgustingly verbose prose)--he has illuminated a lack that I was blind to.

Curse my blindness! Curse him for discovering my weakness, for showing my weakness to me, for forcing me to confront my own weakness.

No. He has only illuminated the darkness. He has only shone a light into the darkness. Into the places I could not see.

I should sleep, yet I cannot.

I should lay my body down and rest my weary eyes.

I should be grateful that this conspiracy of invalids has shown me hope, has shown me possible solutions where I had not seen them, where I had ignored the problem completely.

How can I be anything when a drug-addled child with a guitar and some hippy songs can heal that which I could not?

How can I face myself in the mirror, when I know that I am evil at my secret heart?

No. This is harsh. To call myself evil is wrong, and I know it to be wrong. I chide and deride myself, for I have made an oversight.

That is all. I have made an oversight, but thankfully, I am in an environment ... I have built a community, a healing community. That is the exact purpose of this place, to place minds and hearts together and provide them with healing, to provide them with tools and solutions. Tools to overcome the difficulties of mind brought on by the harshness of the outside world. I brought them together, I brought them here so that I might show them the way.

So what is it that disturbs me? That they might show each other the way? That I am not the one to give it to them? Do I think I am God?

He has not shown her the way. He has shown me the way, that I might show it to her. And besides, I have created this place. This place is an externalization of my own soul. This place is the healing that I would provide, embodied in the world. Anything that occurs here, occurs on my authority, because of my decree.

I have seen the way. I see the hope, because he has shown it to me, because I have brought him here in order to heal him, in order that he might be a part of the environment of healing.

Ah, I am shamed to write such things, but still ... I am proud and right. This is my place. I am master of all that falls between its walls. Nancy has come under my care to act as a tool of my purpose, to embody my will and to illustrate to me the pitfalls of my own path, so that I might overcome, and in doing so, I might show these others how they in turn might overcome.

<!-- TODO: a little more time on the ending - Nancy's suicide / death by drowning in the pond -->

---
This seems to work okay. The text is a little slow to respond to me. I wonder if that's just cause its a big file, or if that's because my connection leaves something to be desired. lemme check into a smaller file. This might just be a necessary fact of life. I don't wanna work with these giant bitch files, do I ?
