<!-- ACT ONE: Gunnar, a patient in a drug study in a military hospital, asks to be let out of the hospital, at least temporarily, but the hospital staff won't let him go. This quickly escalates. -->

	Gunnar is a test subject, undergoing 'clinical trials.' He is staying on the base, a locked ward, with several other human trial patients. 

	Military scientists are testing strange drug-like compounds on people. There are psycho-active elements that are created in weird glandular components of the ship. These are akin to hormones. Something the ship uses to stimulate and interact with different components and systems, and also something that the ship uses to interact with the crew members.

	He escapes and is being chased down by authorites from the base. They have him cornered when the tragedy comes. He is clearly desperate to avoid recapture, and they are clearly desperate to recapture him.

It starts out all rather innocent. Gunnar wants to visit his mother. He says she has fallen ill, and he needs to go and visit her before she dies. Just to say goodbye (or perhaps something not quite so strong as the deathbed).

The 'nurses' put him off. They dismiss his request, gently pushing back the timeline. Wait, they tell him. After the Ceremony (the entire city is preparing for the inaugration of the Camelot), the director will be back. He can arrange for your release. He'll make sure to get your belongings back--the things you had when you checked in here. The director can get them back for you, and arrange transportation and all.

That's fine, Gunnar says. I'll get my things later. I really must be going.

Please, just relax and wait a while. Have a glass of water, we're watching the Ceremony on the screen. Traffic is at a standstill out there right now. You don't want to leave while you're wearing your hospital gown.

I'll leave in my johnnies if I have to. I need to go now. I really can't wait.

Look, it would really be better for you if you just wait a bit. Sit down and have a glass of water.

I insist.

Okay, fine. Have a seat and I'll see what I can do.

I'd rather not sit.

I've got to make some phone calls and we'll try and get your stuff--

Forget about my stuff. I need to go and see my mother. Now.

Right. I'll make some phone calls and see what I can do. 

Fuck the phone calls, you can let me out of here. 

Calm down, please, Gunnar.

Gunnar grabs the nurse and holds a broken splinter of wood (or other improvised stabbing implement) to his neck. "Alright, we are going to walk through these doors," he says.