<!-- ACT FOUR: Tyler meets Gunnar. They are both salvaging equipment in the wreckage. They hit it off, start building the Parsifal. Gunnar wants to install weaponry, but Tyler refuses. -->

while many scour the wreckage (now inside the massive interior bay of Camelot) for survivors, Tyler searches for salvagable goods. 

when they are picked up out of the wreckage of the city and hauled into the body of Camelot, he begins immediately looking for copper tubing and pipes and tanks and such. Not immediately to rebuild his workshop, but to build a *still.* his first thought is about booze and securing his supply. He meets Gunnar and they work on the project together, bonding in quiet labor and understanding.

They work together. Gunnar provides much technology and equipment. (Tyler's workshop was outside of the Fold-zone).

A kid (maybe 12), Percy, is hanging around, playing an arcade game console that he's reconnected. he's found a power source -- done some tricky and dangerous rigging to tap into the ship's power grid.

While they are collecting gear and setting up a space for the still they are also able to get together a good amount of machinery and set up a workshop too.

They take the brains of the racer and build a new ship. a little Tank. Tyler doesn't know what else to do. he has access now to equipment that he could never get his hands on back and home, and if he doesn't work on something, he's afraid he'll just crumble into despair and nothingness.

Percy doesn't talk much, but when Gunnar and Tyler are struggling with some coordinates, trying to determine their location by the view of space, Percy rattles of an impressive sequence of mathematical and navigational skill. He's placed them out beyond Pluto, in the outer solar system, in the direction of Leo 

Gunnar wants to install some mysterious hardware, a PHASE LANCE. He and Tyler fight about it. They don't install it

<!-- ACT FOUR: On the Camelot, Mabby finds Tyler. They reunite with pleasure, though neither shows it outwardly. They work to salvage some goods. bits of machines. There is wreckage everywhere. -->



<!--ACT FOUR: A *Shoggoth* has made it onboard with the civilians. It is smashing through the wreckage, killing survivors. -->